https://www.guru99.com//sap-bods-tutorial.html
SAP BODS Tutorial for Beginners: What is, Architecture Home Testing Back Agile Testing BugZilla Cucumber Database Testing ETL Testing Jmeter JIRA Back JUnit LoadRunner Manual Testing Mobile Testing Mantis Postman QTP Back Quality Center (ALM) RPA SAP Testing Selenium SoapUI Test Management TestLink SAP Back ABAP APO Beginner Basis BODS BI BPC CO Back CRM Crystal Reports FICO HANA HR MM QM Payroll Back PI/PO PP SD SAPUI5 Security Solution Manager Successfactors SAP Tutorials Web Back Apache Android AngularJS ASP.Net C C# C++ CodeIgniter DBMS Back Java JavaScript JSP Kotlin Linux MariaDB MS Access MYSQL Node.js Back Perl PHP PL/SQL PostgreSQL Python ReactJS Ruby & Rails Scala SQL Back SQL Server SQLite UML VB.Net VBScript Web Services WPF Must Learn! Back Accounting Algorithms Blockchain Business Analyst Build Website CCNA Cloud Computing COBOL Compiler Design Embedded Systems Back Ethical Hacking Excel Tutorials Go Programming IoT ITIL Jenkins MIS Networking Operating System Prep Back PMP Photoshop Project Management Reviews Salesforce SEO Software Engineering VBA Big Data Back AWS BigData Cassandra Cognos Data Warehousing DevOps HBase Back Hive Informatica MicroStrategy MongoDB NiFi OBIEE Pentaho Back Power BI Qlikview Tableau Talend ZooKeeper Live Projects Back Live Agile Testing Live HP ALM Live Java Project Live Mobile Testing Live Payment Gateway Live PHP Project Live Projects Hub Live Python Project Back Live Selenium Project Live Selenium 2 Live Security Testing Live Testing Project Live Testing 2 Live Telecom Live UFT/QTP Testing AI Back Artificial Intelligence Data Science Keras NLTK Back NumPy PyTorch R Programming TensorFlow Blog SAP BODS Tutorial for Beginners: What is, Architecture Details Last Updated: 20 February 2020 Before we learn SAP BODS, let's understand What is ETL? ETL stands for Extract-Transform-Load, and it is a process of how data is loaded from the target system to the data warehouse. Data is extracted from a database and transformed to match according to the data warehouse schema. After that, it is loaded back to the data warehouse database in the form of dimension and fact tables. What is SAP BODS? SAP BODS is an ETL tool by SAP which can extract data from disparate systems, transform them into meaningful information and load them in various kinds of systems. Full form of SAP BODS is Business Objects Data Services. It is designed to deliver an enterprise-class solution for data integration, data quality, data processing, data profiling, and text data. In this beginner's tutorial, you will learn, History of SAP BODS SAP BODS Architecture Important terms in SAP BODS SAP Data Services Advantages Disadvantages of SAP BODS History of SAP BODS Here, are famous landmarks in the history of SAP BODS: In 2002, BusinessObjects rebranded the two software products of Acta as BusinessObjects Data Quality tool and BusinessObjects Data Integration tool. Business Objects acquired by SAP in 2007 and both of these products were renamed as SAP BODQ and SAP BODI. In 2008, SAP merged both of these products in a single tool and renamed it as SAP BusinessObjects Data Services (BODS) SAP BODS Architecture Here, are some basic components of SAP BODS architecture: SAP BODS Architecture Diagram Repository: A repository is a set of a table which holds user-created and predefined system object, source, target metadata, and transformation rules. It allows you to set up repositories on an open client/server platform. This helps you for sharing metadata with other enterprise tools. Each local repository is connected with one or more job server which runs the job you have created. Management Console SAP BOD Data Services Management Console is the web-based application with the following features. Impact and Linear Analysis Administration Auto Documentation Operational Dashboard Data Validation Data Quality Data Reports. Job server: The Job Server component helps you to starts the data movement engine. It allows you to integrate data from multiple sources. It helps you to perform complex data transformations and manages transactions and extractions from ERP systems and other sources. The Data integration Job server tool allows you to move in data in either batch or real-time mode. It delivers high data throughput and scalability. Moreover, while designing a job, you can also run it from the Designer which tells the Job Server to run the job. The Job Server also allows you to get the job from its associated bods repository. Data Services Designer The Data services Designer tool offers an easy-to-use graphical user interface that helps you define transformations, data mappings, and control logic. This component helps you to build applications containing data and workflows. This component also allows you to manage metadata stored in a repository. Engines: After SAP BusinessObjects Data Services job are executed, the Job Server starts the engine to perform data extraction, transformation, and movement. The engine uses parallel processing and in-memory data transformation to offer high data connectivity, quality, and scalability. Access server: Access server offers real time request-reply message that collects message request routes them to a real-time service and delivers a message reply in a specific duration. The Acess Server queries message and sends them to the next available real-time service across numerous computing resources. Address Server: The next component is the Address Server. It offers address validation and corrections. The Address Server must be started before processing data flows which contain the Global address Cleanse or Global Suggestion list transform with the EMEA engine enabled. Important terms in SAP BODS Datastore A Datastore offers a connection to a data source like a database. It is a linking interface between the actual backend database and Data services. Data store also allows data services to import the description of the data source such as metadata. CMC (Central Management Console) CMC is a web-based administration tool for BOD. It is a helpful tool to perform some essential functions like repository registration, user management, etc. Data Integrator Web Administrator Data Integrator web administrator is also known as DI web admin. It helps you to maintain repositories in Data services. This SAP BOD services included in DI web admin are Meta Repository, Central Repository, job services, and web services. SAP Data Services Advantages Here are a few pros of SAP BODS SAP Business Objects offers better profiling because of too many acquisitions of other companies. The learning curve of this ETL tool is quick, and it is easy to use. Offers an easy to UI interface to perform data manipulation tasks. The objects and functions of BODS allow you to perform manipulations and transformation of data very efficiently. There are system-provided objects and functions which you can easily drag and dropped. SAP BODS allows you to implement various data transformations using Data Integrator language SAP BODS helps you to perform complex data transformations for building customized functions. Data Integrator Designer allows you to store real time and batch jobs and new projects in the repository. Disadvantages of SAP BODS Here, are few draws backs of using SAP BODS. It is an expensive tool, so the initial purchase cost is very high. Business Objects many need a number of servers and extensive hardware. Business Objects is a developer platform which means organizations that want to use Business Objects will require the support of a highly skilled development team. Summary SAP BODS is an ETL tool by SAP which can extract data from disparate systems, transform them into meaningful information and load them in various kinds of systems. Full form of SAO BODS is Business Objects Data Services. Repository, Management Console, Designer, Job Server, Access Server, are important components of SAP BODS Architecture SAP Business Objects offers better profiling because of too many acquisitions of other companies. BODS is an expensive tool, so the initial purchase cost is very high   YOU MIGHT LIKE: SAP Beginner SAP Business Blueprint: BBP Document & Template What is Business Blueprint in SAP? The SAP Blueprint is a detailed description of a company's... Read more SAP - CRM 26 BEST Salesforce Competitors & Alternatives [Free/Paid] Salesforce is a Software as a service (SaaS) CRM. This tool helps you to manage customer... Read more SAP-HANA SAP HANA Calculation View Tutorial What is Calculation View? SAP HANA Calculation view is a powerful information view. SAP HANA... Read more SAP Beginner What is the Full Form and Meaning of ERP? What is ERP Full Form? The Full form of ERP is Enterprise Resource Planning. ERP is a business... Read more SAP - FI 9 SAP eBook Bundle Just $49 Get 9 must-read books that will put your SAP career in overdrive! FICO, HANA, PP, SD, MM, HR,... Read more SAP-HANA SAP HANA SQL Stored Procedure Tutorial A procedure is a unit/module that perform a specific task. This procedure can be combined to form... Read more Trending Course Top Tutorials About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us Career Suggestion SAP Career Suggestion Tool Software Testing as a Career Selenium Testing Hacking Interesting eBook Blog Quiz SAP eBook SAP Java Python Execute online Execute Java Online Execute Javascript Execute HTML Execute Python Jmeter Informatica JIRA © Copyright - Guru99 2020         Privacy Policy  |  Affiliate Disclaimer  |  ToS
