https://www.guru99.com//java-vs-c-sharp-key-difference.html
Java vs C# - 10 Key Differences between Java and C# Home Testing Back Agile Testing BugZilla Cucumber Database Testing ETL Testing Jmeter JIRA Back JUnit LoadRunner Manual Testing Mobile Testing Mantis Postman QTP Back Quality Center (ALM) RPA SAP Testing Selenium SoapUI Test Management TestLink SAP Back ABAP APO Beginner Basis BODS BI BPC CO Back CRM Crystal Reports FICO HANA HR MM QM Payroll Back PI/PO PP SD SAPUI5 Security Solution Manager Successfactors SAP Tutorials Web Back Apache Android AngularJS ASP.Net C C# C++ CodeIgniter DBMS Back Java JavaScript JSP Kotlin Linux MariaDB MS Access MYSQL Node.js Back Perl PHP PL/SQL PostgreSQL Python ReactJS Ruby & Rails Scala SQL Back SQL Server SQLite UML VB.Net VBScript Web Services WPF Must Learn! Back Accounting Algorithms Blockchain Business Analyst Build Website CCNA Cloud Computing COBOL Compiler Design Embedded Systems Back Ethical Hacking Excel Tutorials Go Programming IoT ITIL Jenkins MIS Networking Operating System Prep Back PMP Photoshop Project Management Reviews Salesforce SEO Software Engineering VBA Big Data Back AWS BigData Cassandra Cognos Data Warehousing DevOps HBase Back Hive Informatica MicroStrategy MongoDB NiFi OBIEE Pentaho Back Power BI Qlikview Tableau Talend ZooKeeper Live Projects Back Live Agile Testing Live HP ALM Live Java Project Live Mobile Testing Live Payment Gateway Live PHP Project Live Projects Hub Live Python Project Back Live Selenium Project Live Selenium 2 Live Security Testing Live Testing Project Live Testing 2 Live Telecom Live UFT/QTP Testing AI Back Artificial Intelligence Data Science Keras NLTK Back NumPy PyTorch R Programming TensorFlow Blog Java vs C# - 10 Key Differences between Java and C# Details Last Updated: 25 March 2020 What is Java? Java was released by Sun Microsystem in 1995. It was developed by James Gosling. It is a general-purpose programming language which was designed with a specific goal of allowing developers to write once run anywhere. Java application is compiled into bytecode that can run on any implementation of the Java Virtual Machine or JVM. In this tutorial, you will learn more about: What is C# History of Java History of C# Characteristic of Java Characteristics of C# Java vs. C# Advantages of Using Java Advantages of Using C# Disadvantages of Using Java Disadvantages of Using C# C# vs. Java – Which is best for you? What is C# C# is an object-oriented programming language, developed by Microsoft that runs on.Net Framework. The name "C sharp" was inspired by musical notations. Here '#' symbol indicates that the written note must be made a semitone which is higher in pitch. History of Java Stack overflow Trends C# vs. Java The Java language was initially called OAK. Originally, it was developed for handling devices and set-top boxes. Oak was a big failure. However, in 1995 Sun changed the name to Java and modified the language to take the benefit of the expanding World Wide Web development business. 14 years later, in 2009, Oracle Corporation acquired Sun Microsystems and took ownership of two of their products Java and Solaris. History of C# Anders Hejlsberg is the key contributor to C# language development. In 1999, he built a team to develop a new language which was then called "Cool.". The project was approved and announced in July 2000 at the.Net Developers Conference. The language was later renamed as C#. Characteristic of Java A multi-platform, object-oriented, network-centric, programming language Java can run on almost any computer platform Network-centric It is designed for building object-oriented online applications. It helps you to integrate object-oriented programming model. Characteristics of C# Google Trends C# vs. Java Here, is the list of few important characteristics of C# programming language: Support for automatic Garbage Collection Offers Standard Library Assembly Versioning Conditional Compilation Simple Multithreading Lambda and LINQ Expressions Integration with Windows Java vs. C# Parameters Java C# Creation Designed by Sun Microsystems. Designed as part of Microsoft's .NET initiative. Ecosystem Has a huge opensource ecosystem. Used to develop software for Microsoft platforms. Support for generics It is implemented using erasures and casts added upon compilation into bytecode. Integrated into the CLI and allows type information to be available at runtime Support for delegates Requires use of an interface to achieve similar functionality. Has delegates which serve as methods that can be called without knowledge of target object. Checked exceptions Only has one type of exception Distinguishes between checked and unchecked exceptions Polymorphism Invokes the "virtual" keyword in a base class and "override" keyword in a derived class. Enables polymorphism by default. Designed for Java programming language is intended to be run on a Java platform, by the help of Java Runtime Environment (JRE). The C# programming language is designed to be run on the Common Language Runtime (CLR). Safety type Java type safety is safe. C# type of safety is unsafe. Built-in Datatype Built-in data types that are passed by value are called simple types. Built-in data types that are passed by value are known as primitive types. Arrays Arrays in Java are a direct specialization of Object. Arrays in C# are a specialization of System. Support for conditional compilation. Java doesn't provide support for conditional compilation C# supports conditional compilation feature with the help of preprocessor directives. Support for Goto statement. Java doesn't support the goto statement. C# supports the goto statement. Structure and unions Java doesn't support structures and unions. C# supports structures and unions. Suited for For concurrency and complex project. It is mainly suited for game app development projects. Installation Requires JDK to run Java. .Net framework provides a vast library of codes used by C# Cross-platform support Java is highly cross-platform with its byte code. Compared to Java, C# need to improve on this feature. IDE Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ IDEA Visual Studio, MonoDevelop Operator Overloading No support for operator overloading C# provides support for operator overloading for multiple operators. Number of Public Classes In Java, there is an only a single public class inside source code, or it will display compilation error. In C#, there are multiple public classes included in the source code. Control for API It is controlled by an open community process. Microsoft controls C# API. Runtime Environment Java supports JVM(Java Virtual Machine). C# supports CLR(Common Language Runtime). Platform Dependency Java is a robust and platform independent language. Code written in C# is windows specific. Pointers Java does not support pointers. In C# you can use pointer only in an unsafe mode. Floating point Java supports strctfp keyword that means it results for a floating point will be the same for different platform. C# does not offer support for strictfp keyword. This means that the result of floating point numbers may not be guaranteed to be the same across all platforms. TIOBE Index 1 6 Famous companies using Airbnb, Instagram, Spotify, Netflix, etc. Stack Exchange, Microsoft, Coderus, Docplanner, etc. Salary Range The average salary earned by Java Developer is $102,633 per year in the United States. The average salary for "C# sharp developer" is approximately $108,145 per year. Advantages of Using Java Here, are pros/benefits of using Java- Detailed Documentation is available. The large pool of skilled developers available Allows you to form standard programs and reusable code. It is a multi-threaded environment which allows you to perform many tasks at the same time in a program. Excellent performance Huge array of 3rd party libraries Easy to navigate libraries Advantages of Using C# Here, are pros/benefits for using C# Offers proper lambda and generics support Backed by Microsoft Corporation Language Integrated Query (LINQ) Easy extension methods Automatic garbage collection Properties with getting/set methods Automated memory management Best in class cross-platform support Backward Compatibility Disadvantages of Using Java Here, are cons for using Java- JIT compiler makes the program comparatively slow. Java has high memory and processing requirements. Therefore hardware cost increases. No support for low-level programming constructs like pointers. You don't have any control over garbage collection as Java does not provide functions like delete(), free(). Disadvantages of Using C# Here, are the cons of using C# Poor x-platform GUI C# is an internal part of the .NET framework so the server running the application must be windows based. It is proprietary, so you need to spend upfront cost to purchase the software C# is less flexible as it mostly depends on the .Net framework. C# runs slowly, and the program needs to be compiled each time when any changes are made. C# vs. Java – Which is best for you? As per your requirement and usage, you can select any language between Java or C#. However, Java is a highly secure and feature-rich programming language which is known for its platform compatibility and robustness. On the other hand, C# is an object-oriented language which is mostly used by the .Net programmers. KEY DIFFERENCE Java runs on the Java Runtime Environment (JRE) whereas C# is designed to be run on the Common Language Runtime (CLR). Java is a class-based Object Oriented language whereas C# is Object-Oriented, functional, strong typing, component-oriented. Java doesn’t support for operator overloading whereas C# provides operator overloading for multiple operators. Java does not support pointers while C# supports pointer only in an unsafe mode. In Java, Arrays are a direct specialization of Object whereas arrays in C# are a specialization of System.   Prev Report a Bug Next YOU MIGHT LIKE: Java Tutorials Java vs Python: What's the Difference? What is Java? Java is a multi-platform, object-oriented, and network-centric, programming... Read more JavaScript JavaScript Tutorial for Beginners PDF JavaScript is an open source & most popular client-side scripting language supported by all... Read more JavaScript JavaScript Unit Testing Frameworks What is JavaScript? JavaScript is a programming language which is defined as high level, dynamic and... Read more JavaScript Typescript vs JavaScript: What's the Difference? What is JavaScript? JavaScript is a scripting language which helps you create interactive web... Read more Java Tutorials Java String replace(), replaceFirst() & replaceAll() Method EXAMPLE Java String has three types of Replace method replace replaceAll replaceFirst. With the help of... Read more Java Tutorials Insertion Sort Algorithm in Java Program with Example Insertion sort is a simple sorting algorithm suited for small data sets. During each iteration,... Read more 1) Java Platform 2) Java Virtual Machine 3) How to install java 4) Download & Install Java in Linux 5) First Java Program 6) Concept of OOPs 7) Data Abstraction 8) Encapsulation 9) Java Variables 10) Class & Objects 11) Java Arrays 12) Array of Objects 13) ArrayList in Java 14) Java Strings 15) String Length() Method 16) String indexOf() Method 17) String charAt() Method 18) String compareTo() Method 19) String contains() Method 20) String endsWith() Method 21) Java String replace() 22) toLowercase() & toUpperCase() 23) Convert a Java String to Integer 24) HashMaps in Java 25) Command-line 26) This Keyword 27) Garbage Collection 28) Static Variables 29) Stack Heap 30) Inheritance 31) Polymorphism 32) Abstract Method & Class 33) Java Interface 34) Interface vs Abstract Class 35) Java Constructors 36) Java Packages 37) Exception Handling 38) User-defined 39) Throws 40) Trick with For Loop 41) Switch in Java 42) Maths with Java 43) Generate Random Number 44) Date in Java 45) Multithreading in Java 46) Java GUI – Swing 47) Split a String 48) Buffered Reader 49) Java Reflection API Tutorials 50) Check Prime Number 51) Convert JSON to XML using Gson and JAXB 52) Prime Number From 1 to 100 53) Convert Char to String 54) Fibonacci Series 55) Check Armstrong Number 56) Reverse String using Recursion 57) Check Palindrome Number 58) Bubble Sort Program 59) Insertion Sort Algorithm 60) Selection Sorting 61) Java Tools for Developers 62) Groovy Script Tutorial 63) Java Spring Tutorial 64) Apache ANT Tutorial 65) JasperReports Tutorial 66) C++ Vs JAVA 67) JDK Vs JRE Vs JVM 68) Java Vs C# 69) Java Vs Python 70) Java Vs Scala 71) Java Interview Q & A 72) Java Design Patterns Interview Q & A 73) JMS Interview Q & A 74) Groovy Interview Q & A 75) JAVA Programming PDF Java Tutorials Top Tutorials About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us Career Suggestion SAP Career Suggestion Tool Software Testing as a Career Selenium Testing Hacking Interesting eBook Blog Quiz SAP eBook SAP Java Python Execute online Execute Java Online Execute Javascript Execute HTML Execute Python Jmeter Informatica JIRA © Copyright - Guru99 2020         Privacy Policy  |  Affiliate Disclaimer  |  ToS
