https://www.guru99.com//java-vs-python.html
Java vs Python: What's the Difference? Home Testing Back Agile Testing BugZilla Cucumber Database Testing ETL Testing Jmeter JIRA Back JUnit LoadRunner Manual Testing Mobile Testing Mantis Postman QTP Back Quality Center (ALM) RPA SAP Testing Selenium SoapUI Test Management TestLink SAP Back ABAP APO Beginner Basis BODS BI BPC CO Back CRM Crystal Reports FICO HANA HR MM QM Payroll Back PI/PO PP SD SAPUI5 Security Solution Manager Successfactors SAP Tutorials Web Back Apache Android AngularJS ASP.Net C C# C++ CodeIgniter DBMS Back Java JavaScript JSP Kotlin Linux MariaDB MS Access MYSQL Node.js Back Perl PHP PL/SQL PostgreSQL Python ReactJS Ruby & Rails Scala SQL Back SQL Server SQLite UML VB.Net VBScript Web Services WPF Must Learn! Back Accounting Algorithms Blockchain Business Analyst Build Website CCNA Cloud Computing COBOL Compiler Design Embedded Systems Back Ethical Hacking Excel Tutorials Go Programming IoT ITIL Jenkins MIS Networking Operating System Prep Back PMP Photoshop Project Management Reviews Salesforce SEO Software Engineering VBA Big Data Back AWS BigData Cassandra Cognos Data Warehousing DevOps HBase Back Hive Informatica MicroStrategy MongoDB NiFi OBIEE Pentaho Back Power BI Qlikview Tableau Talend ZooKeeper Live Projects Back Live Agile Testing Live HP ALM Live Java Project Live Mobile Testing Live Payment Gateway Live PHP Project Live Projects Hub Live Python Project Back Live Selenium Project Live Selenium 2 Live Security Testing Live Testing Project Live Testing 2 Live Telecom Live UFT/QTP Testing AI Back Artificial Intelligence Data Science Keras NLTK Back NumPy PyTorch R Programming TensorFlow Blog Java vs Python: What's the Difference? Details Last Updated: 25 March 2020 What is Java? Java is a multi-platform, object-oriented, and network-centric, programming language. It is among the most used programming language. It also used as a computing platform, and it was first released by Sun Microsystem in 1995. It was later acquired by Oracle Corporation. In this Java vs Python tutorial, you will learn: What is Java? What is Python? Why Java? Why need Python? History of Java History of Python Features of Java Features of Python Java vs. Python Dis-advantages of Java Dis-advantages of Python Who is the best? What is Python? Python is a high-level object-oriented programming language. It has built-in data structures, combined with dynamic binding and typing, which makes it an ideal choice for rapid application development. Python also offers support for modules and packages, which allows system modularity and code reuse. It is one of the fastest programming languages as it requires very few lines of code. Its emphasis is on readability and simplicity, which make it a great choice for beginners. Why Java? Google Trends Java vs. Python Here, are benefits/ pros of using Java Detailed documentation is available. A large pool of skilled developers available A huge array of 3rd party libraries It allows you to form standard programs and reusable code. It is a multi-threaded environment that allows you to perform many tasks at the same time in a program. Excellent performance Easy to navigate libraries Why need Python? Very simple syntax compared to Java, C and C++ languages. Used for Machine Learning, Deep Learning, and the general overarching AI field. Very useful in data analysis and visualization. Extensive library and handy tools for developers Python is cross-compatible Python has its auto-installed shell Compared with the code of other languages, python code is easy to write and debug. Therefore, its source code is relatively easy to maintain. Python is a portable language so that it can run on a wide variety of Operating systems and platforms. Python comes with many prebuilt libraries, which makes your development task easy. Python helps you to make complex programming simpler. As it internally deals with memory addresses, garbage collection. Python provides an interactive shell that helps you to test the things before it's actual implementation. Python offers database interfaces to all major commercial DBMS system. Supports imperative and functional programming Python is famous for its use in IoT. History of Java Here, are important landmarks for Java language The Java language was initially called OAK. Originally, it was developed for handling portable devices and set-top boxes. Oak was a massive failure. In 1995, Sun changed the name to "Java" and modified the language to take advantage of the burgeoning www (World Wide Web) development business. Later, in 2009, Oracle Corporation acquired Sun Microsystems and took ownership of three key Sun software assets: Java, MySQL, and Solaris. History of Python Here, are important landmarks for Python language Python was first conceived in the late 1980s, but its implementation started only in December 1989 It was invented in the Netherlands, by Guido van Rossum. Rossum published the first version of Python (0.9.0) in February 1999 It was derived from ABC programming language, which is a general-purpose programming language. Nowadays, Python is maintained by a core development team although Rossum still plays a vital role in directing its progress Features of Java Here are the important features of Java. Write code once and run it on almost any computing platform It is designed for building object-oriented applications. It is a multithreaded language with automatic memory management Facilitates distributed computing as its network-centric Graph Stack Overflow Questions Java vs. Python Here are the important features of Java. Write code once and run it on almost any computing platform It is designed for building object-oriented applications. It is a multithreaded language with automatic memory management Facilitates distributed computing as its network-centric Features of Python Here, are important features of Python Easy to learn, read, and maintain It can run on various hardware platforms & using the same interface. You can include low-level modules to the Python interpreter. Python offers an ideal structure and support for large programs. Python offers support for automatic garbage collection. It supports an interactive mode of testing and debugging. It offers high-level dynamic data types and also supports dynamic type checking. Python language can be integrated with Java, C, and C++ programming code. Difference between Java and Python Here, are the main differences between Java and Python Parameter Java Python Compilation Java is a Compiled Language Python is an Interpreted Language Static or Dynamic Java is statically typed Python is dynamically typed String operations Offers limited string related functions. It offers lots of string related functions. Learning curve Complex learning curve Easy to learn and use Multiple inheritances Multiple inheritances is partially done through interfaces. It offers both single and multiple inheritances. Braces vs. Indentation It uses curly braces to define the beginning and end of each function and class definition. Python uses indentation to separate code into code blocks. Speed Java program runs slowly compared to Python. Python programs run faster than Java. Portability Any computer or mobile device which is able to run the Java virtual machine can run a Java application Python programs need an interpreter installed on the target machine to translate Python code. Compared to Java, Python is less portable. Read file Java takes 10 lines of code to read from a file in Java. Python only needs 2 lines of code. Architecture Java Virtual Machine provides the runtime environment to execute the code and convert bytecode into machine language. For Python, the interpreter translates source code into machine-independent bytecode. Backend Frameworks Spring, Blade Django, Flask Machine Learning Libraries Weka, Mallet, Deeplearning4j, MOA Tensorflow. Pytorch. Game Development Engines JMonkeyEngine Cocos. Panda3d Famous companies using this technology Airbnb, Netflix, Spotify, Instagram. Uber, Technologies, Dropbox, Google. Best features Great libraries Widely used Excellent tooling Huge amount of documentation available. Readable code Rapid development Beautiful code Best use for Java is best for Desktop GUI apps, Embed Systems, Web application services, etc. Python is excellent for scientific and numeric computing, Machine learning apps, more. Database support Java offers stable connectivity Python offers weak connectivity. Code example  class A {
 public static void main(String args[]){
     System.out.println("Hello World");
 }
}
 Hello World in Python:
print "hello world";
 TIOBE Rating 1 3 Companies using it Docker, Android SDK, Spring Boot, Senty,etc. Django, Flask, Pycharm, CircleCI, etc. Salaries The average salary for a Java Developer is $103,464 per year in the United States. The average salary for a Python Developer is $118,626 per year in the United States. Disadvantages of Java Here, are cons/drawback of using Java language JIT compiler makes the program comparatively slow. Java has high memory and processing requirements. Therefore, hardware cost increases. It does not provide support for low-level programming constructs like pointers. You don't have any control over garbage collection as Java does not offer functions like delete(), free(). Disadvantages of Python Here, are cons/drawback of using Python language Used in fewer platforms. Python is interpreted, so it's much slower than its counterparts. Weak in mobile computing, hence not used in app development Science Python is dynamic, more errors show up at run-time Underdeveloped and primitive database access layer Absence of commercial support Java or Python: Who is the best? Python is an ideal choice for beginners as the language is more intuitive, and its syntax is very much similar to the English language. Its open-source nature facilitates a slew of new tools that improve it. On the other hand, Java is a general-purpose programming language that was designed with a specific goal of allowing developers to write once run anywhere. Selection one language among these ultimately comes down to the nature and the cost of the development project. KEY DIFFERENCES Java is a compiled+ interpreted Language whereas Python is an Interpreted Language Java is statically typed whereas Python is dynamically typed Java has a complex learning curve whereas Python is easy to learn and use Java is a multi-platform, object-oriented, and network-centric, programming language whereas Python is a high-level object-oriented programming language. Java takes 10 lines of code to read from a file while Python only needs 2 lines of code. Java language uses curly braces to define the beginning and end of each function and class definition, whereas Python uses indentation to separate code into separate blocks. In Java, multiple inheritances is partially done through interfaces, whereas Python supports both single and multiple inheritances. Java offers limited string related functions, whereas Python offers lots of string related functions. Java program can run on any computer or mobile device which is able to run the Java virtual machine (JVM) while Python programs need an interpreter installed on the target machine to translate Python code. Compared to Java, Python is less portable. Java is best for Desktop GUI apps, Embed Systems, Web application services, whereas Python is excellent for scientific and numeric computing, Machine learning apps,more. Java offers stable connectivity, while Python offers weak connectivity.   Prev Report a Bug Next YOU MIGHT LIKE: JavaScript TypeScript Tutorial: Types, Arrays, Enum, Classes, Interfaces What is Typescript? Typescript is a superset of JavaScript. TypeScript is pure object-oriented... Read more Java Tutorials Top 100 Java Interview Questions with Answers Q1. What is the difference between an Inner Class and a Sub-Class? Ans: An Inner class is a class... Read more Java Tutorials Palindrome Program in Java: Check number is Palindrome or Not What is Palindrome Number? A Palindrome Number is a number that even when reversed is same as... Read more Java Tutorials String contains() Method in Java with Example What is contains()method in Java? The contains() method is Java method to check if String contains... Read more Java Tutorials Convert JSON to XML using Gson and JAXB: JAVA Example What is JSON? JSON is an abbreviation for Javascript Object Notation, which is a form of data that... Read more Java Tutorials Java Program to Check Prime Number What is a Prime Number? A prime number is a number that is only divisible by 1 or itself. For... Read more 1) Java Platform 2) Java Virtual Machine 3) How to install java 4) Download & Install Java in Linux 5) First Java Program 6) Concept of OOPs 7) Data Abstraction 8) Encapsulation 9) Java Variables 10) Class & Objects 11) Java Arrays 12) Array of Objects 13) ArrayList in Java 14) Java Strings 15) String Length() Method 16) String indexOf() Method 17) String charAt() Method 18) String compareTo() Method 19) String contains() Method 20) String endsWith() Method 21) Java String replace() 22) toLowercase() & toUpperCase() 23) Convert a Java String to Integer 24) HashMaps in Java 25) Command-line 26) This Keyword 27) Garbage Collection 28) Static Variables 29) Stack Heap 30) Inheritance 31) Polymorphism 32) Abstract Method & Class 33) Java Interface 34) Interface vs Abstract Class 35) Java Constructors 36) Java Packages 37) Exception Handling 38) User-defined 39) Throws 40) Trick with For Loop 41) Switch in Java 42) Maths with Java 43) Generate Random Number 44) Date in Java 45) Multithreading in Java 46) Java GUI – Swing 47) Split a String 48) Buffered Reader 49) Java Reflection API Tutorials 50) Check Prime Number 51) Convert JSON to XML using Gson and JAXB 52) Prime Number From 1 to 100 53) Convert Char to String 54) Fibonacci Series 55) Check Armstrong Number 56) Reverse String using Recursion 57) Check Palindrome Number 58) Bubble Sort Program 59) Insertion Sort Algorithm 60) Selection Sorting 61) Java Tools for Developers 62) Groovy Script Tutorial 63) Java Spring Tutorial 64) Apache ANT Tutorial 65) JasperReports Tutorial 66) C++ Vs JAVA 67) JDK Vs JRE Vs JVM 68) Java Vs C# 69) Java Vs Python 70) Java Vs Scala 71) Java Interview Q & A 72) Java Design Patterns Interview Q & A 73) JMS Interview Q & A 74) Groovy Interview Q & A 75) JAVA Programming PDF Java Tutorials Top Tutorials About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us Career Suggestion SAP Career Suggestion Tool Software Testing as a Career Selenium Testing Hacking Interesting eBook Blog Quiz SAP eBook SAP Java Python Execute online Execute Java Online Execute Javascript Execute HTML Execute Python Jmeter Informatica JIRA © Copyright - Guru99 2020         Privacy Policy  |  Affiliate Disclaimer  |  ToS
