https://www.guru99.com//pentaho-tutorial.html
Pentaho Tutorial: Learn Data Integration Reports Home Testing Back Agile Testing BugZilla Cucumber Database Testing ETL Testing Jmeter JIRA Back JUnit LoadRunner Manual Testing Mobile Testing Mantis Postman QTP Back Quality Center (ALM) RPA SAP Testing Selenium SoapUI Test Management TestLink SAP Back ABAP APO Beginner Basis BODS BI BPC CO Back CRM Crystal Reports FICO HANA HR MM QM Payroll Back PI/PO PP SD SAPUI5 Security Solution Manager Successfactors SAP Tutorials Web Back Apache Android AngularJS ASP.Net C C# C++ CodeIgniter DBMS Back Java JavaScript JSP Kotlin Linux MariaDB MS Access MYSQL Node.js Back Perl PHP PL/SQL PostgreSQL Python ReactJS Ruby & Rails Scala SQL Back SQL Server SQLite UML VB.Net VBScript Web Services WPF Must Learn! Back Accounting Algorithms Blockchain Business Analyst Build Website CCNA Cloud Computing COBOL Compiler Design Embedded Systems Back Ethical Hacking Excel Tutorials Go Programming IoT ITIL Jenkins MIS Networking Operating System Prep Back PMP Photoshop Project Management Reviews Salesforce SEO Software Engineering VBA Big Data Back AWS BigData Cassandra Cognos Data Warehousing DevOps HBase Back Hive Informatica MicroStrategy MongoDB NiFi OBIEE Pentaho Back Power BI Qlikview Tableau Talend ZooKeeper Live Projects Back Live Agile Testing Live HP ALM Live Java Project Live Mobile Testing Live Payment Gateway Live PHP Project Live Projects Hub Live Python Project Back Live Selenium Project Live Selenium 2 Live Security Testing Live Testing Project Live Testing 2 Live Telecom Live UFT/QTP Testing AI Back Artificial Intelligence Data Science Keras NLTK Back NumPy PyTorch R Programming TensorFlow Blog Pentaho Tutorial: Learn Data Integration Reports Details Last Updated: 11 April 2020 What is Pentaho BI? Pentaho is a Business Intelligence tool which provides a wide range of business intelligence solutions to the customers. It is capable of reporting, data analysis, data integration, data mining, etc. Pentaho also offers a comprehensive set of BI features which allows you to improve business performance and efficiency. In this Pentaho tutorial, you will learn: Features of Pentaho Pentaho BI suite Who are using Pentaho BI? Install Pentaho in AWS Install of Pentaho Pentaho Administration Console Pentaho Tool vs. BI stack Advantages of using Pentaho Disadvantages of using Pentaho Features of Pentaho Following, are important features of Pentaho: ETL capabilities for business intelligence needs Understanding Pentaho Report Designer Product Expertise Offers Side-by-side subreports Unlocking new capabilities Professional Support Query and Reporting Offers Enhanced Functionality Full runtime metadata support from data sources Pentaho BI suite Pentaho BI Suite Pentaho BI Suite includes the following components: Reporting Pentaho reporting depends on the JFreeReport project. It helps you to fulfill your business reporting needs. This component also offers both scheduled and on-demand report publishing in popular formats such as XLS, PDF, TXT, and HTML. Analysis It offers a wide range of analysis a wide range of features that includes a pivot table view. The tool provides enhanced GUI features (using Flash or SVG), integrated dashboard widgets, portal, and workflow integration. Moreover, Pentaho Spreadsheet Services allows a user to browse, pivot, and use chart from within MS Excel. Dashboards The dashboard offers Reporting and Analysis, which contribute content to Pentaho Dashboards. The self-service dashboard designer includes extensive built-in dashboard templates and layout. It allows business users to build personalized dashboards with little training. Data Mining Data mining tool discovers hidden patterns and indicators of future performance. It offers the most comprehensive set of machine learning algorithms from the Weka project, which includes clustering, decision trees, random forests, principal component analysis, neural networks. It allows you to view data graphically, interact with it programmatically, or use multiple data sources for reports, further analysis, and other processes. Pentaho Data Integration This component is used to integrate data wherever it exists. Rich transformation library with over 150 out-of-the-box mapping objects. It supports a wide range of data source which includes more than 30 open source and proprietary database platforms, flat files. It also helps Big Data analytics with integration and management of Hadoop data. Who are using Pentaho BI? Pentaho BI is a widely used tool by may software professionals like: Open source software programs Business analyst and researcher College students Business intelligence councilor Install Pentaho in AWS Step 1) Go to the link and click Continue to Subscribe Step 2) Accept the Terms Step 3) Click Continue to Configuration Step 4) Keep the settings default, and Click Continue to Configuration. Step 5) Check the usage instructions and wait 5 minutes for instance to launch. Step 6) Get Public IP of the instance. Step 7) Use the public IP of the instance to access it. Install of Pentaho Hardware requirements Software requirements Downloading and installing Bl suite Starting the Bl suite Administration of the Bl suite Hardware requirement: The Pentaho Bl Suite software does not have any fix limits on a computer or network hardware as long as you can meet the minimum software requirements. It is easy to install this Business intelligence tool. However, a recommended set of system specifications: RAM Minimum 2GB Hard drive space Minimum 1GB Processor Dual-core EM64T or AMD64 Software requirements Installation of Sun JRE 5.0 The environment can be either 32-bit or 64-bit Supported Operating systems: Linux, Solaris, Windows, Mac A workstation that has a modern web browser interface such as Chrome, Internet Explorer, Firefox To start Bl-server On Windows from the start, button click on start Bl server icon. On Linux OS run start-pentaho script on /biserver-ce/directory To start the administrator server: On Windows from start button click on start Bl enterprise server. For Linux: goto the command window and run the start-up script in /biserver-ce/administration-console/directory. To Stop administrator server: To stop the server in windows, click on stop bi-server icons. On Linux. You need to go to the terminal and goto installed directory and run stop.bat Pentaho Administration Console Report Designer: It is an advanced report creation tool. This is an ideal tool for you if you want to build a complete data-drive report. This tool offers plenty of flexibility and functionality than the ad hoc reporting capabilities of the Pentaho User Console. Design Studio: It is an Eclipse-based tool. It allows you to hand-edit a report or analysis. It is widely used to add modifications to an existing report that cannot be added with Report Designer. Aggregation Designer: This graphical tool allows you to improve Mondrian cube efficiency. Metadata Editor: It is used to add custom metadata layer to any existing data source. Pentaho Data Integration: The Kettle extract, transform, and load (ETL) tool, which enables Pentaho Tool vs. BI stack Pentaho Tool BI Stack Data Integration (PDI) ETL It offers metadata Editor It provides metadata management Pentaho BA Analytics Reports Designer Operational Reporting Saiku Ad-hoc Reporting CDE Dashboards Pentaho User Console (PUC) Governance/Monitoring Advantages of using Pentaho Pentaho BI is a very intuitive tool. With some basic concepts, you can work with it. Simple and easy to use Business Intelligence tool Offers a wide range of BI capabilities which includes reporting, dashboard, interactive analysis, data integration, data mining, etc. Comes with a user-friendly interface and provides various tools to Retrieve data from multiple data sources Offers single package to work on Data Has a community edition with a lot of contributors along with Enterprise edition. The capability of running on the Hadoop cluster JavaScript code written in the step components can be reused in other components. Disadvantages of using Pentaho Here, are cons/drawbacks of using Pentaho BI tool: The design of the interface can be weak, and there is no unified interface for all components. Much slower tool evolution compared to other BI tools. Pentaho Business analytics offers a limited number of components. Poor community support. So, if you don't get a working component, you need to wait till the next version is released. Summary: Pentaho is a Business Intelligence tool which provides a wide range of business intelligence solutions to the customers It offers ETL capabilities for business intelligence needs. Pentaho suites offer components like Report, Analysis, Dashboard, and Data Mining Pentaho is widely used by 1) Business analyst 2) Open source software programmers 3) Researcher and 4) College Students. The installation process of Pentaho includes: 1)Hardware requirements 2) Software requirements, 3) Downloading Bl suite, 4) Starting the Bl suite, and 5) Administration of the Bl suite Important components of Pentaho Administration console are 1) Report Designer, 2) Design Studio, 3) Aggregation Designer 4) Metadata Editor 5) Pentaho Data Integration Pentaho is a Data Integration (PDI) tool while BI stack is an ETL tool. The biggest advantage of Pentaho is that it is simple and easy to use Business Intelligence tool. The main drawback of Pentaho is that it is a much slower tool evolution compared to other BI tools   Prev Report a Bug Next YOU MIGHT LIKE: R Programming For Loop in R with Examples for List and Matrix A for loop is very valuable when we need to iterate over a list of elements or a range of numbers. Loop can... Read more Blog Top 50 TCS Interview Questions & Answers Tata Consultancy Services is an Indian multinational information technology company headquartered... Read more SDLC 10 Best Notepad++ Alternatives in 2020 Notepad++ is open source code editor written in C++. It supports various programming languages... Read more Review Best Gifts for Programmers: 30 Ideas for Coders [2020 Update] Searching for a gift for your coder friend, partner, colleague, a relative could be daunting as... Read more SDLC Top 27 SDLC Interview Questions and Answers 1) What Is SDLC? SDLC is an abbreviation of Software Development Life Cycle. SDLC is series of... Read more SDLC Difference between XML and HTML What is XML? XML is a markup language which is designed to store data. It's popularly used or... Read more Trending Course Top Tutorials About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us Career Suggestion SAP Career Suggestion Tool Software Testing as a Career Selenium Testing Hacking Interesting eBook Blog Quiz SAP eBook SAP Java Python Execute online Execute Java Online Execute Javascript Execute HTML Execute Python Jmeter Informatica JIRA © Copyright - Guru99 2020         Privacy Policy  |  Affiliate Disclaimer  |  ToS
