https://www.guru99.com//obiee-tutorial.html
OBIEE Tutorial: Oracle Business Intelligence For Beginners Home Testing Back Agile Testing BugZilla Cucumber Database Testing ETL Testing Jmeter JIRA Back JUnit LoadRunner Manual Testing Mobile Testing Mantis Postman QTP Back Quality Center (ALM) RPA SAP Testing Selenium SoapUI Test Management TestLink SAP Back ABAP APO Beginner Basis BODS BI BPC CO Back CRM Crystal Reports FICO HANA HR MM QM Payroll Back PI/PO PP SD SAPUI5 Security Solution Manager Successfactors SAP Tutorials Web Back Apache Android AngularJS ASP.Net C C# C++ CodeIgniter DBMS Back Java JavaScript JSP Kotlin Linux MariaDB MS Access MYSQL Node.js Back Perl PHP PL/SQL PostgreSQL Python ReactJS Ruby & Rails Scala SQL Back SQL Server SQLite UML VB.Net VBScript Web Services WPF Must Learn! Back Accounting Algorithms Blockchain Business Analyst Build Website CCNA Cloud Computing COBOL Compiler Design Embedded Systems Back Ethical Hacking Excel Tutorials Go Programming IoT ITIL Jenkins MIS Networking Operating System Prep Back PMP Photoshop Project Management Reviews Salesforce SEO Software Engineering VBA Big Data Back AWS BigData Cassandra Cognos Data Warehousing DevOps HBase Back Hive Informatica MicroStrategy MongoDB NiFi OBIEE Pentaho Back Power BI Qlikview Tableau Talend ZooKeeper Live Projects Back Live Agile Testing Live HP ALM Live Java Project Live Mobile Testing Live Payment Gateway Live PHP Project Live Projects Hub Live Python Project Back Live Selenium Project Live Selenium 2 Live Security Testing Live Testing Project Live Testing 2 Live Telecom Live UFT/QTP Testing AI Back Artificial Intelligence Data Science Keras NLTK Back NumPy PyTorch R Programming TensorFlow Blog OBIEE Tutorial: Oracle Business Intelligence For Beginners Details Last Updated: 02 March 2020 What is OBIEE? ORACLE BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE ENTERPRISE EDITION (OBIEE) is a BI tool by Oracle Corporation. It gathers, stores, and analyzes data to provide enterprise reports, dashboards, scorecards, ad-hoc analysis. The OLAP provides a rich end-user experience. Oracle Bl also offers a group of web-based tools for reporting and analyzing data based around dashboards, built around tables, graphs, pivots, etc. It is a Multiple server architecture which allows you to separate data access/presentation elements based on Siebel Analytics technology. In this Oracle Business Intelligence tutorial, you will learn, What is OBIEE? OBIEE Architecture Features of OBIEE OBIEE vs. Tableau Advantages of using OBIEE Disadvantages of using OBIEE Best Practices of using Oracle Business Intelligence OBIEE Architecture OBIEE Architecture Diagram Oracle Bl Server is a central component in the suite. It is a query engine which converts the logical requests to a physical SQL statement to execute data sources. It also generates optimized queries, which depends on business rules that are defined in the Bl server repository. Oracle Bl Architecture Components Following architecture components and their relationships: Clients Oracle Bl Presentation Services Oracle Bl Server Oracle Bl repository Data sources Clients: It provides access to business intelligence information Oracle Bl Answers: It is a set of graphical tools used to build, view, and modify Oracle Bl requests Oracle Bl Interactive Dashboards Display the results of answers and requests and other items Oracle Bl Administration Tool: It is used to build an Oracle Bl repository: BI Presentation Server BI presentation server offers processing to visualize the information for client consumption. It is implemented as an extension to a Web server. Uses a catalog to store saved content Receives data from Oracle Bl Server and provides it to the client that requested it Gives access to Business Intelligence information Oracle Bl Answers - a set of tools for creating, viewing, and modifying applications Oracle Bl Interactive Dashboards - visualizing the results of inquiries made with Bl Answers Oracle Bl Administration Tool: It provides the processing to visualize the information for client consumption. It is implemented as an extension to a Web server. Uses a catalog to store saved content Receives data from Oracle Bl Server and provides it to the client that requested it Oracle BI server The Server for Oracle Business Intelligence It uses a meta database directly. Generate Dynamic SQL requests to the physical data sources Structure the results to Bl Presentation Server Repository Stores Metadatabase used by Bl Server. It is Generated by the Oracle Bl Administration Tool Imports meta base from data sources Structure and organize metadata into your business models Structures the business model for presentation to users who want the information Data Sources Oracle Bl Server accesses the business data which users want to analyze which can be in any format, such as: Relational databases Online analytical processing (OLAP) databases Flat files Spreadsheets XML for Analysis (XMLA) Features of OBIEE RPD Presentation layer allows for creating this object Fully implemented interface in WEB; Rich interactive boards Support for Level based hierarchy and ragged hierarchy OBIEE provides a feature of Enterprise Reporting Easy Microsoft Office Integration OBIEE allows a user to create their reports from the scratch Integration with MS Office and Multilingual support The tool offers a real time alert engine which is based on the business Events OBIEE vs. Tableau Here, are some significant differences between OBIEE and Tableau: Parameters OBIEE Tableau Use for OBIEE is a multifaceted network of tools which can create a more fluid and better-integrated data flow for your business. Tableau BI allows people and organizations to become more data-driven as the trusted leader in analytics. Stability More Stable Less Stable Type of solution Offers enterprise-wide solution Point solution Support for writeback feature Writeback feature supported Writeback feature not supported Process of report Auditing done on reports Trail and testing done on reports Advantages of using OBIEE Here, are pros/advantages of using OBIEE: Real time data updating within third-party vendors such as Microsoft applications It helps you to create new deductions or altering existing ones without any IT assistance. Maps and spatial visualizations help you to monitor the analytics. This analytical tool helps users to view and analyze data. Offers metrics to measure the state of the data Shows present key indicators of changes in the market trends etc. You do not require deep level technical skills to run this BI tool. Offers robust Customizations Multilanguage reports can be created with data. Report creation from Scratch Integration with major data sources Disadvantages of using OBIEE Here, are cons/drawbacks for OBIEE: This solution is not ideal for data science perspective It is not a useful tool for data visualization. It lacks lots of functionality. When large numbers of queries are running parallelly, the report fails. It tends to crash when many people login simultaneously. Best Practices of using Oracle Business Intelligence Use only logical links in the Business Model Mapping layer. Rename the logical columns. Remove unwanted objects to simplify the model Use short names to save space in the references. Use names corresponding to the organization, which is easily understandable for customers. Do not use the same name with the name of the logical table in the BMM. You should avoid using quotation marks (') in the names and double quotes ("). Make the names of the object unique. Summary: The Full form of OBIEE is Oracle Business Intelligence Enterprise Edition (OBIEE). It is a BI tool by Oracle Corporation. Important components of Oracle Architecture are Clients 2)Oracle Bl Presentation Services 3) Oracle Bl Server 4) Oracle Bl repository 5) Data sources OBIEEE supports Level based hierarchy and ragged hierarchy OBIEE supports writeback while Tableau does not support this feature OBIEE offers real time data updating within third-party vendors such as Microsoft applications The biggest Drawback of OBIEE tool is that it is not ideally suited for the purpose of data visualization. Use only logical links in the Business Model Mapping layer is an important best practice while working with OBIEE tool.   Prev Report a Bug Next YOU MIGHT LIKE: R Programming R ANOVA Tutorial: One way & Two way (with Examples) What is ANOVA? Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) is a statistical technique, commonly used to studying... Read more SDLC 50+ BEST Freelance Websites for Beginners in 2020 Freelance websites are places where you can earn money for yourself, rather than for a particular... Read more Linux Top 50 Unix Interview Questions & Answers 1) What is UNIX? It is a portable operating system that is designed for both efficient... Read more SDLC What is Mean Stack Developer? Skills, Salary, Growth Before we learn about MEAN Stack Developer, let's understand- What is Mean Stack? Mean stack... Read more SDLC Difference between Class and Object What is Class? A class is an entity that determines how an object will behave and what the object... Read more BigData 11 Best Big Data Analytics Tools in 2020 Big Data Analytics software is widely used in providing meaningful analysis of a large set of... Read more Trending Course Top Tutorials About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us Career Suggestion SAP Career Suggestion Tool Software Testing as a Career Selenium Testing Hacking Interesting eBook Blog Quiz SAP eBook SAP Java Python Execute online Execute Java Online Execute Javascript Execute HTML Execute Python Jmeter Informatica JIRA © Copyright - Guru99 2020         Privacy Policy  |  Affiliate Disclaimer  |  ToS
