https://www.guru99.com//apache-nifi-tutorial.html
Apache NiFi Tutorial: What is, Architecture & Installation Home Testing Back Agile Testing BugZilla Cucumber Database Testing ETL Testing Jmeter JIRA Back JUnit LoadRunner Manual Testing Mobile Testing Mantis Postman QTP Back Quality Center (ALM) RPA SAP Testing Selenium SoapUI Test Management TestLink SAP Back ABAP APO Beginner Basis BODS BI BPC CO Back CRM Crystal Reports FICO HANA HR MM QM Payroll Back PI/PO PP SD SAPUI5 Security Solution Manager Successfactors SAP Tutorials Web Back Apache Android AngularJS ASP.Net C C# C++ CodeIgniter DBMS Back Java JavaScript JSP Kotlin Linux MariaDB MS Access MYSQL Node.js Back Perl PHP PL/SQL PostgreSQL Python ReactJS Ruby & Rails Scala SQL Back SQL Server SQLite UML VB.Net VBScript Web Services WPF Must Learn! Back Accounting Algorithms Blockchain Business Analyst Build Website CCNA Cloud Computing COBOL Compiler Design Embedded Systems Back Ethical Hacking Excel Tutorials Go Programming IoT ITIL Jenkins MIS Networking Operating System Prep Back PMP Photoshop Project Management Reviews Salesforce SEO Software Engineering VBA Big Data Back AWS BigData Cassandra Cognos Data Warehousing DevOps HBase Back Hive Informatica MicroStrategy MongoDB NiFi OBIEE Pentaho Back Power BI Qlikview Tableau Talend ZooKeeper Live Projects Back Live Agile Testing Live HP ALM Live Java Project Live Mobile Testing Live Payment Gateway Live PHP Project Live Projects Hub Live Python Project Back Live Selenium Project Live Selenium 2 Live Security Testing Live Testing Project Live Testing 2 Live Telecom Live UFT/QTP Testing AI Back Artificial Intelligence Data Science Keras NLTK Back NumPy PyTorch R Programming TensorFlow Blog Apache NiFi Tutorial: What is, Architecture & Installation Details Last Updated: 06 April 2020 What is Apache NiFi? Apache NiFi is an open source software for automating and managing the flow of data between systems. It is a powerful and reliable system to process and distribute data. It provides a web-based User Interface for creating, monitoring, & controlling data flows. It has a highly configurable and modifiable data flow process that can modify data at runtime. It is easily extensible through the development of custom components. In this tutorial, you will learn- What is Apache NiFi? Why Use Apache NIfi? History of Apache NiFi NiFi Architecture Apache NiFi Features How to Install Apache NiFi Nifi Use Cases Best practices Running Apache NiFi Disadvantage of Nifi Why Use Apache NIfi? Here, are reasons for using Apache Nifi: Allows you to do data ingestion to pull data into NiFi, from numerous data sources and create flow files It offers real-time control which helps you to manage the movement of data between any source & destination Visualize DataFlow at the enterprise level Provide common tooling and extensions Allows you to take advantage of existing libraries and Java ecosystem functionality Helps organizations to integrate Nifi with their existing infrastructure NiFi is designed to scale-out in clusters which offer guaranteed delivery of data Visualize and Monitor performance, behavior in a flow bulletin which offers insight and inline documentation Helps you to start and stop components separately or at the group level It helps you to listen, fetch, split, aggregate, route, transform and drag & drop Dataflow History of Apache NiFi Developed at NSA for over eight years 2014- It was donated to the Apache Software Foundation 2015- NiFi became an official part of the Apache Project Suite Since then every 6-8 weeks, Apache NiFi releases a new update NiFi Architecture Apache NiFi has a well-thought-out architecture. Once data is fetched from external sources, it is represented as FlowFile inside Apache NiFi architecture. Here are key components of NiFi architecture Nifi Component Description FlowFile FlowFile is original data with meta-information attached to it. It allows you to process not only CSV or other record-based data, but also pictures, videos, audio, or any other binary data. Flowfile processor Performs the work which acts as a building block of data flow in NiFi. Flow controller Keeps a record of how processes are connected. It manages the threads and allocations thereof which all processes use. Web Server Web server hosts NiFi's HTTP-based commands and API. Extension There are many types of NiFi extensions which operate and execute within the JVM. Connection Acts as a linkage between processors that contain a queue and relationship(s) which affects where data is routed. Back Pressure Stop the system of becoming overrun by controlling the quantity or data size of flow files that can be stored in the queue. Process Group A process group is a set of processes and their connections, which receives and send data with the help of ports. Flowfile Repository In the FlowFile Repository, NiFi keeps track of the state of what details it has about a given FlowFile which is active in the flow. Content Repository The Content Repository is an area where the actual content bytes of a given FlowFile exist. Provenance Repository The Provenance Repository is an area where all provenance event data is gathered. Apache NiFi Features NiFi supports buffering of all queued data and offers an ability of back pressure as those queues may reach specified limits NiFi allows the setting of one or more prioritization schemes Provides connection processors for many data sources Support any device which runs Java Ideal for limited connectivity places Support for troubleshooting and flow optimization Offers role-based authentication/authorization Allows download, recovery, and replay of individual files Build your processors, controller services, and more Provide content encryption, communication over secure protocols Enables rapid development and effective testing Allows for the development of simple single-function components that can be reused and combined to make more complex flows Allows classloader isolation for easier management of dependencies How to Install Apache NiFi Step 1) Go to the link and click "Continue to Subscribe" Step 2) On the next page, click "Accept Terms" Step 3) You will see this page Step 4) Refresh the page after 5 minutes. Click on "Continue to Configuration" Step 5) On the next page, keep settings default and click "Continue to Launch" Step 6) On the next page, click Launch. You may need to create a key Step 7) You will see this success message. Step 8) Note, the instance id and the public DNS of the EC2 instance Step 9) In the security group, Add all traffic rule to inbound and outbound Step 10) To access Nifi, simply use the URL http://publicdns:808/nifi In our case it becomes http://ec2-100-26-156-57.compute-1.amazonaws.com:8080/nifi/ User: admin Password: Instance Id Step 11) You will see the NiFi home screen Nifi Use Cases Industry Usage Insurance Risk & underwriting analysis Claims Analytics Usage-based Insurance New product development HealthCare Single view of Patient Real-time vital sign monitoring EMR optimization Supply Chain Optimization Telecommunication Single view of the customer CDR analysis Dynamic Bandwidth allocation Manufacturing Preventative Maintenance Supply Chain Optimization Quality Control Oil & Gas- Industry Real-time monitoring Single view of the Operation Predictive Maintenance Archive & Analytics Unstructured data classification Financial Services Anti-money laundering Fraud- Detection Risk- data management Best practices Running Apache NiFi Ideal to separate test/dev/production environments in NiFi You should break your flow into process groups Use a naming convention, use comments and labels Organize your projects into three parts ingestion, test & monitoring Use unique names for variable Disadvantage of Nifi Need precise security and compliance controls You need to know the underlying system very well while working with Apache NiFi Must maintain chain of custody for data Transport / Messaging may not prove enough Data access needs exceed available resources to transport Not all data is created equally SSL and topic level authorization may not be sufficient Summary Apache NiFi is an open source software for automating and managing the flow of data between systems NiFi is designed to scale-out in clusters which offer guaranteed delivery of data Nifi was developed at NSA for over eight years Once data is fetched from external sources, it is represented as FlowFile inside Apache NiFi architecture. FlowFile, processor, controller, web server, connection, back pressure, repository are important components of NiFi architecture Nifi Supports any device which runs Java You can easily install NiFi on AWS NiFi is used in varied industries such as healthcare, insurance, telecom, manufacturing, finance, oil and gas among others As a best practice organize your projects into three parts ingestion, test & monitoring   YOU MIGHT LIKE: DevOps Puppet Tutorial for Beginners: Resources, Classes, Manifest, Modules Before we learn Puppet, let's understand: What is Configuration Management? Configuration... Read more DevOps ELK Stack Tutorial: Learn Elasticsearch, Logstash, and Kibana What is the ELK Stack? The ELK Stack is a collection of three open-source products —... Read more R Programming Top 18 R Programming Interview Questions & Answers 1) Explain what is R? R is data analysis software which is used by analysts, quants,... Read more R Programming R Data Types, Arithmetic & Logical Operators with Example In this tutorial, you will learn: Basic data types Variables Vectors Arithmetic Operators Logical... Read more R Programming T Test in R: One Sample and Paired (with Example) What is Statistical Inference? Stastitical inference is the art of generating conclusions about... Read more SDLC Top 50 Software Engineering Interview Questions and Answers 1) What are the important categories of software? System software Application software Embedded... Read more Trending Course Top Tutorials About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us Career Suggestion SAP Career Suggestion Tool Software Testing as a Career Selenium Testing Hacking Interesting eBook Blog Quiz SAP eBook SAP Java Python Execute online Execute Java Online Execute Javascript Execute HTML Execute Python Jmeter Informatica JIRA © Copyright - Guru99 2020         Privacy Policy  |  Affiliate Disclaimer  |  ToS
