https://www.guru99.com//java-variables.html
Java Variables and Data Types with EXAMPLE Home Testing Back Agile Testing BugZilla Cucumber Database Testing ETL Testing Jmeter JIRA Back JUnit LoadRunner Manual Testing Mobile Testing Mantis Postman QTP Back Quality Center (ALM) RPA SAP Testing Selenium SoapUI Test Management TestLink SAP Back ABAP APO Beginner Basis BODS BI BPC CO Back CRM Crystal Reports FICO HANA HR MM QM Payroll Back PI/PO PP SD SAPUI5 Security Solution Manager Successfactors SAP Tutorials Web Back Apache Android AngularJS ASP.Net C C# C++ CodeIgniter DBMS Back Java JavaScript JSP Kotlin Linux MariaDB MS Access MYSQL Node.js Back Perl PHP PL/SQL PostgreSQL Python ReactJS Ruby & Rails Scala SQL Back SQL Server SQLite UML VB.Net VBScript Web Services WPF Must Learn! Back Accounting Algorithms Blockchain Business Analyst Build Website CCNA Cloud Computing COBOL Compiler Design Embedded Systems Back Ethical Hacking Excel Tutorials Go Programming IoT ITIL Jenkins MIS Networking Operating System Prep Back PMP Photoshop Project Management Reviews Salesforce SEO Software Engineering VBA Big Data Back AWS BigData Cassandra Cognos Data Warehousing DevOps HBase Back Hive Informatica MicroStrategy MongoDB NiFi OBIEE Pentaho Back Power BI Qlikview Tableau Talend ZooKeeper Live Projects Back Live Agile Testing Live HP ALM Live Java Project Live Mobile Testing Live Payment Gateway Live PHP Project Live Projects Hub Live Python Project Back Live Selenium Project Live Selenium 2 Live Security Testing Live Testing Project Live Testing 2 Live Telecom Live UFT/QTP Testing AI Back Artificial Intelligence Data Science Keras NLTK Back NumPy PyTorch R Programming TensorFlow Blog Java Variables and Data Types with EXAMPLE Details Last Updated: 25 March 2020 What is a Variable? A variable can be thought of as a container which holds value for you, during the life of a Java program. Every variable is assigned a data type which designates the type and quantity of value it can hold. In order to use a variable in a program you to need to perform 2 steps Variable Declaration Variable Initialization In this tutorial, you will learn- Variable Declaration Variable Initialization Types of variables Data Types in Java Type Conversion & Type Casting Variable Declaration: To declare a variable, you must specify the data type & give the variable a unique name.   Examples of other Valid Declarations are int a,b,c;

float pi;

double d;

char a;
 Variable Initialization: To initialize a variable, you must assign it a valid value.   Example of other Valid Initializations are pi =3.14f;

do =20.22d;

a=’v’;
 You can combine variable declaration and initialization.   Example : int a=2,b=4,c=6;

float pi=3.14f;

double do=20.22d;

char a=’v’;
 Types of variables In Java, there are three types of variables: Local Variables Instance Variables Static Variables 1) Local Variables Local Variables are a variable that are declared inside the body of a method. 2) Instance Variables Instance variables are defined without the STATIC keyword .They are defined Outside a method declaration. They are Object specific and are known as instance variables. 3) Static Variables Static variables are initialized only once, at the start of the program execution. These variables should be initialized first, before the initialization of any instance variables. Example: Types of Variables in Java 
class Guru99 {
    int data = 99; //instance variable  
    static int a = 1; //static variable  
    void method() {
        int b = 90; //local variable  
    }
} Data Types in Java Data types classify the different values to be stored in the variable. In java, there are two types of data types: Primitive Data Types Non-primitive Data Types Primitive Data Types Primitive Data Types are predefined and available within the Java language. Primitive values do not share state with other primitive values. There are 8 primitive types: byte, short, int, long, char, float, double, and boolean Integer data types byte (1 byte)
short (2 bytes)
int (4 bytes)
long (8 bytes)
 Floating Data Type float (4 bytes)

double (8 bytes) Textual Data Type char (2 bytes) Logical boolean (1 byte) (true/false) Java Data Types Data Type Default Value Default size byte 0 1 byte short 0 2 bytes int 0 4 bytes long 0L 8 bytes float 0.0f 4 bytes double 0.0d 8 bytes boolean false 1 bit char '\u0000' 2 bytes Points to Remember: All numeric data types are signed(+/-). The size of data types remain the same on all platforms (standardized) char data type in Java is 2 bytes because it uses UNICODE character set. By virtue of it, Java supports internationalization. UNICODE is a character set which covers all known scripts and language in the world Java Variable Type Conversion & Type Casting A variable of one type can receive the value of another type. Here there are 2 cases - Case 1) Variable of smaller capacity is be assigned to another variable of bigger capacity.   This process is Automatic, and non-explicit is known as Conversion Case 2) Variable of larger capacity is be assigned to another variable of smaller capacity   In such cases, you have to explicitly specify the type cast operator. This process is known as Type Casting. In case, you do not specify a type cast operator; the compiler gives an error. Since this rule is enforced by the compiler, it makes the programmer aware that the conversion he is about to do may cause some loss in data and prevents accidental losses. Example: To Understand Type Casting Step 1) Copy the following code into an editor. class Demo {
 public static void main(String args[]) {
  byte x;
  int a = 270;
  double b = 128.128;
  System.out.println("int converted to byte");
  x = (byte) a;
  System.out.println("a and x " + a + " " + x);
  System.out.println("double converted to int");
  a = (int) b;
  System.out.println("b and a " + b + " " + a);
  System.out.println("\ndouble converted to byte");
  x = (byte)b;
  System.out.println("b and x " + b + " " + x);
 }
} Step 2) Save, Compile & Run the code. Output: int converted to byte
a and x 270 14
double converted to int
b and a 128.128 128

double converted to byte
b and x 128.128 -128   Prev Report a Bug Next YOU MIGHT LIKE: JavaScript Java vs JavaScript: Most Important Differences You Must Know What is Java? Java is a multi-platform, object-oriented, and network-centric, programming... Read more Java Tutorials Prime Number From 1 to 100 Program in Java What is a Prime Number? A prime number is a number that is only divisible by 1 or itself. For... Read more Java Tutorials JDK vs JRE vs JVM: Key Differences What is JDK? JDK is a software development environment used for making applets and Java... Read more Java Tutorials String contains() Method in Java with Example What is contains()method in Java? The contains() method is Java method to check if String contains... Read more Java Tutorials JAVA Programming Tutorial for Beginners PDF Java is the most popular programming language & is the language of choice for Android programming. Key... Read more Java Tutorials String indexOf() Method in Java with EXAMPLE What is indexOf() Method in Java? indexOf() Method is used to get index of the first occurrence of a... Read more 1) Java Platform 2) Java Virtual Machine 3) How to install java 4) Download & Install Java in Linux 5) First Java Program 6) Concept of OOPs 7) Data Abstraction 8) Encapsulation 9) Java Variables 10) Class & Objects 11) Java Arrays 12) Array of Objects 13) ArrayList in Java 14) Java Strings 15) String Length() Method 16) String indexOf() Method 17) String charAt() Method 18) String compareTo() Method 19) String contains() Method 20) String endsWith() Method 21) Java String replace() 22) toLowercase() & toUpperCase() 23) Convert a Java String to Integer 24) HashMaps in Java 25) Command-line 26) This Keyword 27) Garbage Collection 28) Static Variables 29) Stack Heap 30) Inheritance 31) Polymorphism 32) Abstract Method & Class 33) Java Interface 34) Interface vs Abstract Class 35) Java Constructors 36) Java Packages 37) Exception Handling 38) User-defined 39) Throws 40) Trick with For Loop 41) Switch in Java 42) Maths with Java 43) Generate Random Number 44) Date in Java 45) Multithreading in Java 46) Java GUI – Swing 47) Split a String 48) Buffered Reader 49) Java Reflection API Tutorials 50) Check Prime Number 51) Convert JSON to XML using Gson and JAXB 52) Prime Number From 1 to 100 53) Convert Char to String 54) Fibonacci Series 55) Check Armstrong Number 56) Reverse String using Recursion 57) Check Palindrome Number 58) Bubble Sort Program 59) Insertion Sort Algorithm 60) Selection Sorting 61) Java Tools for Developers 62) Groovy Script Tutorial 63) Java Spring Tutorial 64) Apache ANT Tutorial 65) JasperReports Tutorial 66) C++ Vs JAVA 67) JDK Vs JRE Vs JVM 68) Java Vs C# 69) Java Vs Python 70) Java Vs Scala 71) Java Interview Q & A 72) Java Design Patterns Interview Q & A 73) JMS Interview Q & A 74) Groovy Interview Q & A 75) JAVA Programming PDF Java Tutorials Top Tutorials About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us Career Suggestion SAP Career Suggestion Tool Software Testing as a Career Selenium Testing Hacking Interesting eBook Blog Quiz SAP eBook SAP Java Python Execute online Execute Java Online Execute Javascript Execute HTML Execute Python Jmeter Informatica JIRA © Copyright - Guru99 2020         Privacy Policy  |  Affiliate Disclaimer  |  ToS
