https://www.guru99.com//compiler-design-tutorial.html
Compiler Design Tutorial: What is, Types, Tools, Example Home Testing Back Agile Testing BugZilla Cucumber Database Testing ETL Testing Jmeter JIRA Back JUnit LoadRunner Manual Testing Mobile Testing Mantis Postman QTP Back Quality Center (ALM) RPA SAP Testing Selenium SoapUI Test Management TestLink SAP Back ABAP APO Beginner Basis BODS BI BPC CO Back CRM Crystal Reports FICO HANA HR MM QM Payroll Back PI/PO PP SD SAPUI5 Security Solution Manager Successfactors SAP Tutorials Web Back Apache Android AngularJS ASP.Net C C# C++ CodeIgniter DBMS Back Java JavaScript JSP Kotlin Linux MariaDB MS Access MYSQL Node.js Back Perl PHP PL/SQL PostgreSQL Python ReactJS Ruby & Rails Scala SQL Back SQL Server SQLite UML VB.Net VBScript Web Services WPF Must Learn! Back Accounting Algorithms Blockchain Business Analyst Build Website CCNA Cloud Computing COBOL Compiler Design Embedded Systems Back Ethical Hacking Excel Tutorials Go Programming IoT ITIL Jenkins MIS Networking Operating System Prep Back PMP Photoshop Project Management Reviews Salesforce SEO Software Engineering VBA Big Data Back AWS BigData Cassandra Cognos Data Warehousing DevOps HBase Back Hive Informatica MicroStrategy MongoDB NiFi OBIEE Pentaho Back Power BI Qlikview Tableau Talend ZooKeeper Live Projects Back Live Agile Testing Live HP ALM Live Java Project Live Mobile Testing Live Payment Gateway Live PHP Project Live Projects Hub Live Python Project Back Live Selenium Project Live Selenium 2 Live Security Testing Live Testing Project Live Testing 2 Live Telecom Live UFT/QTP Testing AI Back Artificial Intelligence Data Science Keras NLTK Back NumPy PyTorch R Programming TensorFlow Blog Compiler Design Tutorial: What is, Types, Tools, Example Details Last Updated: 11 March 2020 What is a Compiler? A compiler is a computer program which helps you transform source code written in a high-level language into low-level machine language. It translates the code written in one programming language to some other language without changing the meaning of the code. The compiler also makes the end code efficient which is optimized for execution time and memory space. The compiling process includes basic translation mechanisms and error detection. Compiler process goes through lexical, syntax, and semantic analysis at the front end, and code generation and optimization at a back-end. In this training, you will learn What is a Compiler? Features of Compilers Types of Compiler Tasks of Compiler History of Compiler Steps for Language processing systems Compiler Construction Tools Why use a Compiler? Application of Compilers Features of Compilers Correctness Speed of compilation Preserve the correct the meaning of the code The speed of the target code Recognize legal and illegal program constructs Good error reporting/handling Code debugging help Types of Compiler Single Pass Compilers Two Pass Compilers Multipass Compilers Single Pass Compiler In single pass Compiler source code directly transforms into machine code. For example, Pascal language. Two Pass Compiler Two pass Compiler is divided into two sections, viz. Front end: It maps legal code into Intermediate Representation (IR). Back end: It maps IR onto the target machine The Two pass compiler method also simplifies the retargeting process. It also allows multiple front ends. Multipass Compilers The multipass compiler processes the source code or syntax tree of a program several times. It divided a large program into multiple small programs and process them. It develops multiple intermediate codes. All of these multipass take the output of the previous phase as an input. So it requires less memory. It is also known as 'Wide Compiler'. Tasks of Compiler Main tasks performed by the Compiler are: Breaks up the up the source program into pieces and impose grammatical structure on them Allows you to construct the desired target program from the intermediate representation and also create the symbol table Compiles source code and detects errors in it Manage storage of all variables and codes. Support for separate compilation Read, analyze the entire program, and translate to semantically equivalent Translating the source code into object code depending upon the type of machine History of Compiler Important Landmark of Compiler's history are as follows: The "compiler" word was first used in the early 1950s by Grace Murray Hopper The first compiler was build by John Backum and his group between 1954 and 1957 at IBM COBOL was the first programming language which was compiled on multiple platforms in 1960 The study of the scanning and parsing issues were pursued in the 1960s and 1970s to provide a complete solution Steps for Language processing systems Before knowing about the concept of compilers, you first need to understand a few other tools which work with compilers. Preprocessor: The preprocessor is considered as a part of the Compiler. It is a tool which produces input for Compiler. It deals with macro processing, augmentation, language extension, etc. Interpreter: An interpreter is like Compiler which translates high-level language into low-level machine language. The main difference between both is that interpreter reads and transforms code line by line. Compiler reads the entire code at once and creates the machine code. Assembler: It translates assembly language code into machine understandable language. The output result of assembler is known as an object file which is a combination of machine instruction as well as the data required to store these instructions in memory. Linker: The linker helps you to link and merge various object files to create an executable file. All these files might have been compiled with separate assemblers. The main task of a linker is to search for called modules in a program and to find out the memory location where all modules are stored. Loader: The loader is a part of the OS, which performs the tasks of loading executable files into memory and run them. It also calculates the size of a program which creates additional memory space. Cross-compiler: A cross compiler is a platform which helps you to generate executable code. Source-to-source Compiler: Source to source compiler is a term used when the source code of one programming language is translated into the source of another language. Compiler Construction Tools Compiler construction tools were introduced as computer-related technologies spread all over the world. They are also known as a compiler- compilers, compiler- generators or translator. These tools use specific language or algorithm for specifying and implementing the component of the compiler. Scanner generators: This tool takes regular expressions as input. For example LEX for Unix Operating System. Syntax-directed translation engines: These software tools offer an intermediate code by using the parse tree. It has a goal of associating one or more translations with each node of the parse tree. Parser generators: A parser generator takes a grammar as input and automatically generates source code which can parse streams of characters with the help of a grammar. Automatic code generators: Takes intermediate code and converts them into Machine Language Data-flow engines: This tool is helpful for code optimization. Here, information is supplied by user and intermediate code is compared to analyze any relation. It is also known as data-flow analysis. It helps you to find out how values are transmitted from one part of the program to another part. Why use a Compiler? Compiler verifies entire program, so there are no syntax or semantic errors The executable file is optimized by the compiler, so it is executes faster Allows you to create internal structure in memory There is no need to execute the program on the same machine it was built Translate entire program in other language Generate files on disk Link the files into an executable format Check for syntax errors and data types Helps you to enhance your understanding of language semantics Helps to handle language performance issues Opportunity for a non-trivial programming project The techniques used for constructing a compiler can be useful for other purposes as well Application of Compilers Compiler design helps full implementation Of High-Level Programming Languages Support optimization for Computer Architecture Parallelism Design of New Memory Hierarchies of Machines Widely used for Translating Programs Used with other Software Productivity Tools Summary A compiler is a computer program which helps you transform source code written in a high-level language into low-level machine language Correctness, speed of compilation, preserve the correct the meaning of the code are some important features of compiler design Compilers are divided into three parts 1) Single Pass Compilers 2)Two Pass Compilers, and 3) Multipass Compilers The "compiler" was word first used in the early 1950s by Grace Murray Hopper Steps for Language processing system are: Preprocessor, Interpreter, Assembler, Linker/Loader Important compiler construction tools are 1) Scanner generators, 2)Syntax-3) directed translation engines, 4) Parser generators, 5) Automatic code generators The main task of the compiler is to verify the entire program, so there are no syntax or semantic errors   Next YOU MIGHT LIKE: Review Best Gifts for Programmers: 30 Ideas for Coders [2020 Update] Searching for a gift for your coder friend, partner, colleague, a relative could be daunting as... Read more Blog Top 50 TCS Interview Questions & Answers Tata Consultancy Services is an Indian multinational information technology company headquartered... Read more Blog 16 BEST Free YouTube Video Downloader [2020 Update] YouTube is a popular video-sharing platform that helps users to watch, like, comment and upload... Read more R Programming Merge Data Frames in R: Full and Partial Match Very often, we have data from multiple sources. To perform an analysis, we need to merge two... Read more Blog IBM Rational ClearQuest Tool Tutorial What is ClearQuest? IBM ClearQuest is a Bug Tracking system It provides change tracking, process... Read more DevOps Kubernetes vs Docker: Must Know Differences! What is Kubernetes? Kubernetes is an open-source container management software developed in the... Read more Compiler Design Tutorial 1) Compiler Design 2) Phases of Compiler 3) Lexical Analysis 4) Syntax Analysis 5) Compiler vs Interpreter Top Tutorials About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us Career Suggestion SAP Career Suggestion Tool Software Testing as a Career Selenium Testing Hacking Interesting eBook Blog Quiz SAP eBook SAP Java Python Execute online Execute Java Online Execute Javascript Execute HTML Execute Python Jmeter Informatica JIRA © Copyright - Guru99 2020         Privacy Policy  |  Affiliate Disclaimer  |  ToS
