https://www.guru99.com//java-tools.html
20 Best Java Tools for Developers in 2020 Home Testing Back Agile Testing BugZilla Cucumber Database Testing ETL Testing Jmeter JIRA Back JUnit LoadRunner Manual Testing Mobile Testing Mantis Postman QTP Back Quality Center (ALM) RPA SAP Testing Selenium SoapUI Test Management TestLink SAP Back ABAP APO Beginner Basis BODS BI BPC CO Back CRM Crystal Reports FICO HANA HR MM QM Payroll Back PI/PO PP SD SAPUI5 Security Solution Manager Successfactors SAP Tutorials Web Back Apache Android AngularJS ASP.Net C C# C++ CodeIgniter DBMS Back Java JavaScript JSP Kotlin Linux MariaDB MS Access MYSQL Node.js Back Perl PHP PL/SQL PostgreSQL Python ReactJS Ruby & Rails Scala SQL Back SQL Server SQLite UML VB.Net VBScript Web Services WPF Must Learn! Back Accounting Algorithms Blockchain Business Analyst Build Website CCNA Cloud Computing COBOL Compiler Design Embedded Systems Back Ethical Hacking Excel Tutorials Go Programming IoT ITIL Jenkins MIS Networking Operating System Prep Back PMP Photoshop Project Management Reviews Salesforce SEO Software Engineering VBA Big Data Back AWS BigData Cassandra Cognos Data Warehousing DevOps HBase Back Hive Informatica MicroStrategy MongoDB NiFi OBIEE Pentaho Back Power BI Qlikview Tableau Talend ZooKeeper Live Projects Back Live Agile Testing Live HP ALM Live Java Project Live Mobile Testing Live Payment Gateway Live PHP Project Live Projects Hub Live Python Project Back Live Selenium Project Live Selenium 2 Live Security Testing Live Testing Project Live Testing 2 Live Telecom Live UFT/QTP Testing AI Back Artificial Intelligence Data Science Keras NLTK Back NumPy PyTorch R Programming TensorFlow Blog 20 Best Java Tools for Developers in 2020 Details Last Updated: 25 March 2020 There are many tools available for Java management. These software ease the entire process of developing, testing and deployment in Java. Here is the list of Top tools with their features and download links. 1) JUnit: JUnit is an open source unit testing tool for Java programming language. It is important tool for test-driven development and deployment. Features: Preparation of input data and setup/creation of fake objects Loading databases with a specific known set of data It provides annotations so that test classes can have fixture run before or after every test JUnit provides support for writing and running tests It provides annotations to identify test methods Provides assertions for testing expected results JUnit tests allow writing codes faster, which increases quality Download link: http://junit.org/junit4/ 2) NetBeans: NetBeans is FREE, open-source IDE. It allows developing desktop, mobile and web applications. Features: It offers complete support for Latest Java Technologies Support for fast & smart code editing Easy & Efficient Project Management process Rapid User Interface Development Helps to write bug-free code NetBeans IDE offers superior support for C/C++ and PHP developers NetBeans IDE can be installed in any OS which supports Java, from Windows to Linux to Mac OS X systems Download link: https://netbeans.org/downloads/index.html 3) Apache Maven: Apache Maven is a software Project Management Tool. It is based on the Project Object Model (POM) concept. Features: Simple project setup that follows best practices to get a new project or module started in seconds Allows easy writing of plugins using Java Instant access to new features with very few extra configuration Ant tasks for dependency management and deployment outside of Maven Release management and distribution publication It encourages the use of a central repository of JARs and other dependencies Download link: http://maven.apache.org/download.cgi 4) JRat: JRat is a Java Runtime Analysis Toolkit. It is easy to use, open source performance profiler for the Java platform. It can monitor application's execution and performance measurements. Features: Easy file transfers to any location on any computer Allows remote view on jRAT Provide support for website Redirection JRat allows modifying system files Helps users to process on their systems Taking screenshots allows administrator to keep a record of issues on the client's computer Download link: https://sourceforge.net/projects/jrat/files/JRat/ 5) Mockito: Mockito is an Open Source Java Mocking and Unit Testing Tool. Mockito is a popular open source Java mocking framework. It helps developers to write clean, well-designed and loosely-coupled code. Features: It can be used to write Behaviour Driven Development style tests with syntactic sugar facilitates It offers nice, easily readable syntax. It also provides some annotations needed for reducing boilerplate code Mockito allows writing of relaxed tests Download link: http://site.mockito.org/ 6) Clover: Clover is a Java tool for generating code coverage reports from unit tests. It can be executed as a plugin in Ant, Eclipse, or Maven. It can also use to collect coverage data of integration tests. Features: Open source and free to use tool for Java Very easy to use because of on-the-fly byte code Full coverage and metrics for latest test run Inline annotation helps to visually highlight statement-level coverage Test optimization feature makes it painless to run testsuite before every check-in Download link: https://www.atlassian.com/software/clover/download 7) Ehcache: Ehcache is an open source, standards-based caching tool for Java language. It is robust, proven, full-featured tool which can be integrated with other popular libraries and frameworks. Features: Ehcache strives to maintain a small footprint to keep apps as light as possible Revamped API that leverages Java generics and Cache interactions API is very simple and easy to use Scalable to hundreds of caches Allows box Spring Caching and Hibernate integration to with javax.cache support Download links: http://www.ehcache.org/downloads/ 8) VisualVM: VisualVM is a visual tool for integrating command-line JDK tools. It also offers lightweight profiling capabilities. It is designed for both development and production time use. Features: It displays both local and remote Java Processes Monitor Process Performance and Memory Visualize Process Threads Profile Performance and Memory Usage Take and Display Thread Dumps It can read basic information about the crashed Java process Helps to analyze Core Dumps Download link: https://visualvm.github.io/download.html 9) Oracle JDeveloper: Oracle J Developer is a free Java development IDE. It allows developers to build reliable Service Oriented Architecture with Java. It supports the full development life cycle. Features: Ability to generate servlets which operate as EJB clients It supports creating and editing Web Socket annotations of Java classes Allows to specify a configuration class to hold the Meta data Download link: http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/developer-tools/jdev/downloads/index.html 10) FindBugs: FindBugs is an open source Java project for static analysis. It scans Java bytecode to identify potential bugs. This tool provides early feedback about potential errors in the code. It helps the developer to access all type of bug early in the development phase. Features: Can identify bug patterns with complete accuracy It provides support for the Guava library, recognizing many common misuse patterns. Support detection of problems identified by JSR-305 annotations Download link: http://findbugs.sourceforge.net/downloads.html 11) Java Decompiler: Java Decompiler is a freeware Java tool that reconstructs Java source code from CLASS files. It allows to decompile, Java applets, JAR and ZIP files for producing accurate Java source code. Features: The tool supports Drag and Drop It displays color coded Source Code Works for almost all versions of Java Download link: http://jd.benow.ca/ 12) Gradle: Gradle is a project automation Java tool. It builds on the features of Apache Ant and Apache Maven. It also serves as the default build tool for the Android platform. Features: Better modeling of dependencies using the Java Library plugin reduces the size of the compile classpath It comes with a remote build cache with convenient management tools Gradle Wrapper allows to execute Gradle builds on machines where it is not installed It supports multi-project builds and also partial builds It can easily adapt to any structure Its smart classpath helps to avoid unnecessary compilation when the binary interface of a library not changed Download link: https://gradle.org/ 13) Cobertura: Cobertura is free Java tool that calculates the percentage of code accessed by tests. It can also be used to identify which parts of Java program are lacking test coverage. Features: It allows line and branch coverage in a detailed tree view View source code and colored according to line coverage Launch Scala, Eclipse JUnit, and PDE in covered mode It filters out uninteresting classes and packages Instruments Java bytecode after finishing compiling Allows to generate reports in HTML or XML Display the percentage of lines, branches covered for each class, package, and the entire project Download link: http://cobertura.github.io/cobertura/ 14) Groovy: Groovy is a powerful language with static-typing & compilation capabilities. It is aimed at improving developer's productivity. Features: Concise, readable and expressive syntax It integrates easily with any Java program to deliver an effective application with powerful features Seamlessly integrates with Java and other third-party libraries Flexible & malleable syntax, advanced integration & customization Great for writing concise and maintainable tests Download link: http://groovy-lang.org/download.html 15) Yourkit: YourKit is an innovative tool for profiling Java &.NET applications. It is the standard-setter in the evolution of profiling tools. Features: Straightforward installation process Developer friendly environment Seamless integration with IDEs and application servers Powerful analysis capabilities Built-in SSH tunneling supports ease profiling in restricted network conditions Permissive license policy allows unlimited number of profiled applications It offers high-level monitoring web, database, I/O High-level profiling results to see the big picture and find out the exact issues Download link: https://www.yourkit.com/java/profiler/download/ 16) Eclipse: Eclipse is an open-source integrated development environment for Java. It offers modern features, large numbers of modeling tools, java testing tools, and development frameworks. Features: Model Driven Development Easy and seamless integration with JUnit Provide Complete Detailed reports It is also easy to customize. In conjunction with the Ctrlflow Automated Error Reporting Server Eclipse offers the best tooling for JEE projects Download link: https://www.eclipse.org/ 17) Spark: Spark is a robust Java based framework for developing web applications. It allows Java developers to create web applications without the need of writing boilerplate code. Features: Ability to support multiple languages It comes with tools for interactive/declarative queries, streaming data, machine learning Spark code can be reused for batch-processing Spark streaming can handle real-time stream processing It has a provision for real-time stream processing Active, progressive and most expanding community Download link: https://spark.apache.org/downloads.html 18) IntelliJ Idea: IntelliJ IDEA is a multi-purpose IDE which focuses on Java development. It offers advanced support for the web, mobile, and hybrid application development. Features: It analyses source code between all project files and languages It gives list of the most relevant symbols applicable in the current context It allows cross-language refactoring Finds duplicate code fragments on the fly Inspections and quick-fixes Editor-centric environment It allows user to use static methods or constants easily Download link: https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/download/download-thanks.html 19) Apache JMeter: JMeter is an open source load testing tool. It is designed to load functional test behavior and measure performance of websites. Features: JMeter allows performing load and performance test for various server types This load testing tool store its test plans in XML format which allows users to generate the test plan using a text editor The tool can also use for automated and functional testing of the applications Data analysis and visualization plugins allow extensibility as well as personalization Functions should provide dynamic input to test data manipulation Download link: http://jmeter.apache.org/download_jmeter.cgi 20) Java Development Kit: Java Development Kit (JDK) is a tool for writing Java applets and applications. The JDK includes the Java Runtime Environment, the Java compiler, and the Java APIs. Features: String in Switch Expression Underscores between Digits in Numeric Literals Integral Types as Binary Literals Provide support to handle multiple exceptions in a single catch block Try-with-resources Statement Automatic Type Inference in Generic object instantiation Download link: https://java.com/en/download/faq/develop.xml   Prev Report a Bug Next YOU MIGHT LIKE: Java Tutorials JDK vs JRE vs JVM: Key Differences What is JDK? JDK is a software development environment used for making applets and Java... Read more Java Tutorials Java Program to Check Prime Number What is a Prime Number? A prime number is a number that is only divisible by 1 or itself. For... Read more JavaScript Top 85 JavaScript Interview Questions & Answers 1. What is JavaScript? JavaScript is a client-side as well as server side scripting language that... Read more Java Tutorials Interface vs Abstract Class in Java: What's the Difference? What is Interface? The interface is a blueprint that can be used to implement a class. The... Read more Java Tutorials Java String replace(), replaceFirst() & replaceAll() Method EXAMPLE Java String has three types of Replace method replace replaceAll replaceFirst. With the help of... Read more Java Tutorials String compareTo() Method in Java with Example What is compareTo() method in Java? compareTo() is used for comparing two strings... Read more 1) Java Platform 2) Java Virtual Machine 3) How to install java 4) Download & Install Java in Linux 5) First Java Program 6) Concept of OOPs 7) Data Abstraction 8) Encapsulation 9) Java Variables 10) Class & Objects 11) Java Arrays 12) Array of Objects 13) ArrayList in Java 14) Java Strings 15) String Length() Method 16) String indexOf() Method 17) String charAt() Method 18) String compareTo() Method 19) String contains() Method 20) String endsWith() Method 21) Java String replace() 22) toLowercase() & toUpperCase() 23) Convert a Java String to Integer 24) HashMaps in Java 25) Command-line 26) This Keyword 27) Garbage Collection 28) Static Variables 29) Stack Heap 30) Inheritance 31) Polymorphism 32) Abstract Method & Class 33) Java Interface 34) Interface vs Abstract Class 35) Java Constructors 36) Java Packages 37) Exception Handling 38) User-defined 39) Throws 40) Trick with For Loop 41) Switch in Java 42) Maths with Java 43) Generate Random Number 44) Date in Java 45) Multithreading in Java 46) Java GUI – Swing 47) Split a String 48) Buffered Reader 49) Java Reflection API Tutorials 50) Check Prime Number 51) Convert JSON to XML using Gson and JAXB 52) Prime Number From 1 to 100 53) Convert Char to String 54) Fibonacci Series 55) Check Armstrong Number 56) Reverse String using Recursion 57) Check Palindrome Number 58) Bubble Sort Program 59) Insertion Sort Algorithm 60) Selection Sorting 61) Java Tools for Developers 62) Groovy Script Tutorial 63) Java Spring Tutorial 64) Apache ANT Tutorial 65) JasperReports Tutorial 66) C++ Vs JAVA 67) JDK Vs JRE Vs JVM 68) Java Vs C# 69) Java Vs Python 70) Java Vs Scala 71) Java Interview Q & A 72) Java Design Patterns Interview Q & A 73) JMS Interview Q & A 74) Groovy Interview Q & A 75) JAVA Programming PDF Java Tutorials Top Tutorials About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us Career Suggestion SAP Career Suggestion Tool Software Testing as a Career Selenium Testing Hacking Interesting eBook Blog Quiz SAP eBook SAP Java Python Execute online Execute Java Online Execute Javascript Execute HTML Execute Python Jmeter Informatica JIRA © Copyright - Guru99 2020         Privacy Policy  |  Affiliate Disclaimer  |  ToS
