https://www.guru99.com//java-platform.html
What is Java Platform? Ultimate Guide for Programmers Home Testing Back Agile Testing BugZilla Cucumber Database Testing ETL Testing Jmeter JIRA Back JUnit LoadRunner Manual Testing Mobile Testing Mantis Postman QTP Back Quality Center (ALM) RPA SAP Testing Selenium SoapUI Test Management TestLink SAP Back ABAP APO Beginner Basis BODS BI BPC CO Back CRM Crystal Reports FICO HANA HR MM QM Payroll Back PI/PO PP SD SAPUI5 Security Solution Manager Successfactors SAP Tutorials Web Back Apache Android AngularJS ASP.Net C C# C++ CodeIgniter DBMS Back Java JavaScript JSP Kotlin Linux MariaDB MS Access MYSQL Node.js Back Perl PHP PL/SQL PostgreSQL Python ReactJS Ruby & Rails Scala SQL Back SQL Server SQLite UML VB.Net VBScript Web Services WPF Must Learn! Back Accounting Algorithms Blockchain Business Analyst Build Website CCNA Cloud Computing COBOL Compiler Design Embedded Systems Back Ethical Hacking Excel Tutorials Go Programming IoT ITIL Jenkins MIS Networking Operating System Prep Back PMP Photoshop Project Management Reviews Salesforce SEO Software Engineering VBA Big Data Back AWS BigData Cassandra Cognos Data Warehousing DevOps HBase Back Hive Informatica MicroStrategy MongoDB NiFi OBIEE Pentaho Back Power BI Qlikview Tableau Talend ZooKeeper Live Projects Back Live Agile Testing Live HP ALM Live Java Project Live Mobile Testing Live Payment Gateway Live PHP Project Live Projects Hub Live Python Project Back Live Selenium Project Live Selenium 2 Live Security Testing Live Testing Project Live Testing 2 Live Telecom Live UFT/QTP Testing AI Back Artificial Intelligence Data Science Keras NLTK Back NumPy PyTorch R Programming TensorFlow Blog What is Java Platform? Ultimate Guide for Programmers Details Last Updated: 04 March 2020 What is Java? Java is a programming language and a computing platform for application development. It was first released by Sun Microsystem in 1995 and later acquired by Oracle Corporation. It is one of the most used programming languages. What is Java Platform? Java platform is a collection of programs that help to develop and run programs written in the Java programming language. Java platform includes an execution engine, a compiler, and a set of libraries. JAVA is platform-independent language. It is not specific to any processor or operating system. This video introduces the Java platform, and explains why Java is a platform as well as a programming language. Click here if the video is not accessible To understand JAVA programming language, we need to understand some basic concept of how a computer program can run a command and execute the action. What is PC? A computer is an electronic device capable of performing computations, and we all know that it is composed of a monitor, keyboard, mouse, and memory to store information. But the most important component of the computer is a PROCESSOR. Which does all thinking of computer, but the question is how the computer does this thinking? How does it understand text, images, videos, etc.? What is Assembly Language? The computer is an electronic device, and it can only understand electronic signals or binary signals. For example, the 5-volt electronic signal may represent binary number 1 while 0 volts may represent binary number 0. So your PC is continuously bombarded with these signals. Eight bits of such signals are group together to interpret Text, numerical and symbols. For example, the # symbol is identified by computer as 10101010. Similarly, the pattern for adding a function is represented by 10000011. This is known as 8-bit computing. Current day processor is capable of decoding 64-bit time. But what is the relation of this concept with the programming language JAVA? Let understand these as an example. Suppose if you want to tell the computer to add two number (1+2) which is represented by some binary numbers (10000011), how are you going to tell the computer? Yes, we going to use assembly language to get our code executed. "Assembly Language is the most elementary form of software development languages." We are going to give the command to a computer in this format as shown below. Your code to add two numbers in this language would be in this order. Store number 1 at memory location say A Store number 2 at memory location say B Add contents of Location A & B Store results But how are we going to do this? Back in 1950's when computers were huge and consumed a great deal of power, you would convert your assembly code into corresponding machine code to 1 and 0's using mapping sheets. Later this code will be punched into the machine cards and feed to the computer. The computer will read these code and execute the program. These would be a long process then until ASSEMBLER came to help. What are Assembler and Compiler? With the advancement in technology i/o devices were invented, you could directly type your program into the PC using a program called ASSEMBLER. It converts it into corresponding machine code (110001..) and feeds to your processor. So coming back to our example addition of (1+2), the assembler will convert this code into machine code and give the output. That apart, you will also have to make calls to create Operating System provided functions to display the output of the code. But alone assembler is not involved in this whole process; it also requires the compiler to compile the long code into a small chunk of codes. With advancement in software development languages, this entire assembly code could shrink into just one line print f 1+2 A with the help of software called COMPILER. It is used to convert your c language code into assembly code, and the assembler converts it into corresponding machine code, and this machine code will be transmitted to the processor. The most common processor used in PC or Computers are Intel processor. Though present-day compilers come bundled with assembler can directly convert your higher language code into machine code. Now, suppose Windows operating system is running on this Intel processor, a combination of Operating System plus the processor is called the PLATFORM. The most common platform in the world is the Windows, and Intel called the Wintel Platform. The other popular platforms are AMD and Linux, Power PC, and Mac OS X. Now, with a change in processor, the assembly instructions will also change. For example the Add instruction in Intel may be called ADDITION for AMD OR Math ADD for Power PC And obviously, with a change in Operating System, the level and nature of O.S level calls will also change. As a developer, I want my software program to work on all platforms available, to maximize my revenues. So I would have to buy separate compilers which convert my print f command into the native machine code. But compilers come expensive, and there is a chance of compatibility issues. So buying and installing a separate compiler for different O.S and processor is not feasible. So, what can be an alternative solution? Enter Java language. How Java Virtual Machine works? By using Java Virtual Machine, this problem can be solved. But how it works on different processors and O.S. Let's understand this process step by step. Step 1) The code to display addition of two numbers is System.out.println(1+2), and saved as .java file. Step 2) Using the java compiler the code is converted into an intermediate code called the bytecode. The output is a .class file. Step 3) This code is not understood by any platform, but only a virtual platform called the Java Virtual Machine. Step 4) This Virtual Machine resides in the RAM of your operating system. When the Virtual Machine is fed with this bytecode, it identifies the platform it is working on and converts the bytecode into the native machine code. In fact, while working on your PC or browsing the web whenever you see either of these icons be assured the java virtual machine is loaded into your RAM. But what makes java lucrative is that code once compiled can run not only on all PC platforms but also mobiles or other electronic gadgets supporting java. Hence, "Java is a programming language as well as a Platform" How is Java Platform Independent? Like C compiler, Java compiler does not produce native executable code for a particular machine. Instead, Java produces a unique format called bytecode. It executes according to the rules laid out in the virtual machine specification. Bytecode is understandable to any JVM installed on any OS. In short, the java source code can run on all operating systems.   Next YOU MIGHT LIKE: Java Tutorials JAVA Programming Tutorial for Beginners PDF Java is the most popular programming language & is the language of choice for Android programming. Key... Read more Java Tutorials How to easily Generate Random Numbers in Java In this tutorial, we will learn about Generate Random Numbers- Using Java Random Class Using Java... Read more JavaScript Difference Between =, ==, and === in JavaScript [Examples] What is = in JavaScript? Equal to (=) is an assignment operator, which sets the variable on the... Read more JavaScript JavaScript Tutorial for Beginners PDF JavaScript is an open source & most popular client-side scripting language supported by all... Read more Java Tutorials Java vs C# - 10 Key Differences between Java and C# What is Java? Java was released by Sun Microsystem in 1995. It was developed by James Gosling. It is a... Read more Java Tutorials How to Reverse a String in Java using Recursion In this example program, we will reverse a string entered by a user. We will create a function to... Read more 1) Java Platform 2) Java Virtual Machine 3) How to install java 4) Download & Install Java in Linux 5) First Java Program 6) Concept of OOPs 7) Data Abstraction 8) Encapsulation 9) Java Variables 10) Class & Objects 11) Java Arrays 12) Array of Objects 13) ArrayList in Java 14) Java Strings 15) String Length() Method 16) String indexOf() Method 17) String charAt() Method 18) String compareTo() Method 19) String contains() Method 20) String endsWith() Method 21) Java String replace() 22) toLowercase() & toUpperCase() 23) Convert a Java String to Integer 24) HashMaps in Java 25) Command-line 26) This Keyword 27) Garbage Collection 28) Static Variables 29) Stack Heap 30) Inheritance 31) Polymorphism 32) Abstract Method & Class 33) Java Interface 34) Interface vs Abstract Class 35) Java Constructors 36) Java Packages 37) Exception Handling 38) User-defined 39) Throws 40) Trick with For Loop 41) Switch in Java 42) Maths with Java 43) Generate Random Number 44) Date in Java 45) Multithreading in Java 46) Java GUI – Swing 47) Split a String 48) Buffered Reader 49) Java Reflection API Tutorials 50) Check Prime Number 51) Convert JSON to XML using Gson and JAXB 52) Prime Number From 1 to 100 53) Convert Char to String 54) Fibonacci Series 55) Check Armstrong Number 56) Reverse String using Recursion 57) Check Palindrome Number 58) Bubble Sort Program 59) Insertion Sort Algorithm 60) Selection Sorting 61) Java Tools for Developers 62) Groovy Script Tutorial 63) Java Spring Tutorial 64) Apache ANT Tutorial 65) JasperReports Tutorial 66) C++ Vs JAVA 67) JDK Vs JRE Vs JVM 68) Java Vs C# 69) Java Vs Python 70) Java Vs Scala 71) Java Interview Q & A 72) Java Design Patterns Interview Q & A 73) JMS Interview Q & A 74) Groovy Interview Q & A 75) JAVA Programming PDF Java Tutorials Top Tutorials About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us Career Suggestion SAP Career Suggestion Tool Software Testing as a Career Selenium Testing Hacking Interesting eBook Blog Quiz SAP eBook SAP Java Python Execute online Execute Java Online Execute Javascript Execute HTML Execute Python Jmeter Informatica JIRA © Copyright - Guru99 2020         Privacy Policy  |  Affiliate Disclaimer  |  ToS
