https://www.guru99.com//best-hard-disks.html
Best Hard Drive for Gaming in 2020 (HDD Buyers Guide) Home Testing Back Agile Testing BugZilla Cucumber Database Testing ETL Testing Jmeter JIRA Back JUnit LoadRunner Manual Testing Mobile Testing Mantis Postman QTP Back Quality Center (ALM) RPA SAP Testing Selenium SoapUI Test Management TestLink SAP Back ABAP APO Beginner Basis BODS BI BPC CO Back CRM Crystal Reports FICO HANA HR MM QM Payroll Back PI/PO PP SD SAPUI5 Security Solution Manager Successfactors SAP Tutorials Web Back Apache Android AngularJS ASP.Net C C# C++ CodeIgniter DBMS Back Java JavaScript JSP Kotlin Linux MariaDB MS Access MYSQL Node.js Back Perl PHP PL/SQL PostgreSQL Python ReactJS Ruby & Rails Scala SQL Back SQL Server SQLite UML VB.Net VBScript Web Services WPF Must Learn! Back Accounting Algorithms Blockchain Business Analyst Build Website CCNA Cloud Computing COBOL Compiler Design Embedded Systems Back Ethical Hacking Excel Tutorials Go Programming IoT ITIL Jenkins MIS Networking Operating System Prep Back PMP Photoshop Project Management Reviews Salesforce SEO Software Engineering VBA Big Data Back AWS BigData Cassandra Cognos Data Warehousing DevOps HBase Back Hive Informatica MicroStrategy MongoDB NiFi OBIEE Pentaho Back Power BI Qlikview Tableau Talend ZooKeeper Live Projects Back Live Agile Testing Live HP ALM Live Java Project Live Mobile Testing Live Payment Gateway Live PHP Project Live Projects Hub Live Python Project Back Live Selenium Project Live Selenium 2 Live Security Testing Live Testing Project Live Testing 2 Live Telecom Live UFT/QTP Testing AI Back Artificial Intelligence Data Science Keras NLTK Back NumPy PyTorch R Programming TensorFlow Blog Best Hard Drive for Gaming in 2020 (HDD Buyers Guide) Details Last Updated: 15 April 2020 When people talk about the essentials for the perfect gaming experience, many of them forget to mention one important piece. The hard drive. You might have the best gaming monitor, a special mouse, and keyboard, a gaming pad maybe or even a gaming chair but these will mean nothing when you have no space to install your games. Which is why you need a dedicated gaming hardware. Not only does it allow you enough space for storing your favorite games but are also optimized to reduce the load time and minimize game lagging. Moreover, with over 100 different types of best gaming hard drives available, you will find our list of the top 7 best gaming hard disks pretty useful. List of Best Hard Drive for Gaming Top Pick   Samsung 860 EVO 250GB to 4TB Best Internal SSD Hard Drive Check Amazon 1st Runner WD Black 250GB to 6TB Best Internal HDD for Laptops Check Amazon 2nd Runner Seagate FireCuda SSHD 1TB | 2TB Best Hybrid HDD Check Amazon Here is the complete List Product Name Capacity Reason Chosen Details Samsung 860 EVO 250GB to 4TB Best Internal SSD Hard Drive Check Price WD Black 250GB to 6TB Best Internal HDD for Laptops Check Price Seagate FireCuda SSHD 1TB | 2TB Best Hybrid HDD Check Price Seagate Game Drive 500GB to 8TB Best for Xbox Check Price WD Caviar Blue 320GB Best Budget Check Price Toshiba P300 500GB to 3TB Best Hard Drive for Desktop PC Check Price Seagate External Hard drive 3TB to 8TB Best External Hard Drive Check Price #1: Samsung 860 EVO – Best Internal SSD Hard Drive The Samsung 860 Evo follows up on the success of its predecessor, the 850 Evo, and having inherited everything we liked on the 850 EVO it’s easy to understand why we recommend this SSD storage device. However, it is the incredible speed of the SSD that will really appeal to you as a gamer. Although this is typical of all SSDs, Samsung takes it a notch higher with their latest V-NAND technology that can sequentially read at speeds of 550MB/s and write at about 520MB/s. This is more than 2x the standard HDD. This hard drive has also seen a 51% increase in performance from the 850 EVO with 6x more endurance. Also, unlike some other drives relying on software-based encryption, the Samsung 860 EVO comes with the Self Encrypting Drive technology that ensures that your data is safe without affecting the hard disk performance. Now, we can all agree that upgrading to a new hard drive can be a hassle especially considering you have to reinstall the OS then move all your old files to the new drive. But now thanks to the Samsung Data Migration software, this process has been really streamlined. You also have the option to download the Samsung Magician software that will help you monitor and maintain the SSD. This drive comes with a 5-year warranty and is available in sizes ranging from 250GB to 4TB. Pros Excellent speeds Effectively protects your data Generous warranty Includes a data migration software Easy monitoring through Samsung Magician software Cons Reported cases of the Data Migration Software not working Check Latest Price and User Reviews on Amazon #2: WD Black – Best Internal Laptop Hard Disk Western Digital is one of the leading brands in the manufacture of hard disks and you can, therefore, expect superior products from them. The WD Black series is one such example we highly recommend as an upgrade for your laptop hard disk. You can choose from its several capacities starting from 250GB to 6TB, but for this review, we will look at the WD Black 1TB. Why? It offers sufficient space for all your game's downloadable content (DLC), it's quite affordable, and most importantly, it excels in performance levels. Now, nothing is stopping you from getting the new Fortnite Founder’s pack. Equipped with a dual-core processor, you can expect excellent load times with read/write speed of almost 200mbps. It also features 32MB of cache which is also crucial in boosting the load and access time. To top it off it comes with the industry's best rotation speed of 7200RPS. It also features various protection mechanisms like No Touch Ramp Load technology and Corruption Protection Technology that are meant to safeguard your data better. Physically this hard disk also includes a layer of silica gel on top of the plastic wrapper to ensure better protection against moisture. Pros Great speeds Available in a variety of sizes Great data protection mechanism Trusted brand name Cons A grinding noise when in operation Check Latest Price and User Reviews on Amazon #3: Seagate FireCuda SSHD – Best Hybrid Hard Drive Seagate came up with the FireCuda hard disk series to specifically cater for the gamers, and hence all of its features are meant to improve your gaming experience. Which is why it is only available in 1TB and 2TB version since any lesser capacity is not really ideal in this modern gaming era. The FireCuda 3.5" SSHD is the bigger desktop version of the Seagate FireCuda 2.5" SSHD and comes with 7200RPM, 64MB of cache and a SATA 6Gb/s connection. However, the highlight of this Hard disk is its Hybrid architecture. It is the perfect fusion between an SSD and an HDD. That is it combines the speed of an SSD and the storage capabilities of the HDD. By using adaptive learning, the FireCuda can memorize the frequently accessed games and save them in the flash memory. This significantly reduces the access time to these games. Comparatively, this hard disk produces high performance than the 2.5” FireCuda, but this can be attributed to its larger size which allows more space for the rotating disks. Other mentionable features include the Instant Secure Erase to safely and easily delete content from the hard drive. The Self-Encrypting technology protects your data. You also get a 2-year warranty. Pros A hybrid between SSD and HDD Instant Erase feature Great data protection techniques Cons You cannot manually select what goes to the flash memory Check Latest Price and User Reviews on Amazon #4: Seagate Game Drive – Best Hard Drive for Xbox Until recently, the biggest storage space you could get on the Xbox is 500GB. Even now you will have to cough up more bucks to get the 1TB SSD. But do you know what's better than the wd blue 1TB SSD from Microsoft? The Seagate 4TB hard drive specifically made for the Xbox. This self-powered hard disk may be a bit bigger than its 2TB counterpart, but it is still pretty convenient to carry around. It features USB 3.0 ports which means data transfer is quite fast. It only takes a few minutes to copy Halo 5 which is more than 50GB in size. Another thing we found pretty convenient is the Plug and Play setup which means once the Xbox recognizes the hard disk it only takes some seconds to load the game. You will also find that it takes less time to load your game’s DLC than with the internal hard drive. Additionally, you can use the drive to save movies and other media files that can be played through your Xbox console. This hard drive comes with a 2-year warranty. Pros Plug and Play setup Fast USB 3.0 ports Easily portable Ample storage Cons Cannot play games and Media at the same time Check Latest Price and User Reviews on Amazon #5: WD Caviar Blue – Best Budget Hard Drive I have mentioned that gaming hard drives should be large in size, but that does not automatically rule out the smaller drives. Especially if you have a tight budget or if your game library is not insanely big. The WD Caviar Blue hard drive is one of the best budget hard drives you can buy for gaming. With a rotation speed of 7200RPM and a cache size of 8MB, this drive will still be able to provide a decent load and access time. Of course, you will have to compromise on the number and size of the games you play, but considering the price I would say you will be getting the best value for your money. On top of getting a 1-year warranty from the reseller, you also have the option to return the product for a full refund. Pros Very affordable Great loading time 100% Money back guarantee Cons Limited game size that you can play Check Latest Price and User Reviews on Amazon #6: Toshiba P300 – Best Hard Drive for Desktop PC Don't you hate it when you have to wait for what seems like forever for your game to load? Well, with a 64 MB cache size and 7200RPM you will definitely notice faster load time. With 2TB of storage space, it's hard to envision you having any trouble with inadequate space even after installing all the available mods for your games. Toshiba has also included a caching technology that efficiently allocates the cache space during read and write cycles resulting in faster access to your games. They have also taken the necessary measures to protect your data which is evident through the internal shock sensors that absorb any impacts resulting from falls or knocks and the secured motor shaft that protects the hard drive against system vibrations. The No-Touch Ramp-load tech also helps to reduce the wearing down of the recording head by ensuring that it does not touch the disk surface. This series of Toshiba hard disks are available in sizes ranging from 500GB-3TB and comes with a 2-year standard limited Warranty. Pros Great loading time Effectively protects your data Does not produce noise Easy to install Cons Some reported cases of premature failure Check Latest Price and User Reviews on Amazon #7: Seagate External Hard Drive – Best External Hard drive Sometimes we just want to add extra storage to our devices without having to replace the existing hard drive. If you are using a desktop PC, this may not be a problem since they usually allow space for additional hard drives, but it's different with a laptop. Seagate External hard drive is ideal for laptop gamers. These are available in sizes starting from 3TB up to 8TB, and all you have to do is connect them to a power outlet then to your computer using the 3.0 or 2.O USB ports. However, if you are using a Mac, you will need to reformat them in order to be fully compatible. If you are a game hoarder like me, then you will appreciate the value this expansion hard disk brings. I really find it hard to delete games even when it's necessary, but with an extra 4TB I can keep my collection of games and check them out whenever I am not in the mood for playing the usual. Pros Adequate space Easy setup Fast USB 3.0 interface Cons A little bulky Check Latest Price and User Reviews on Amazon Choosing the Best Hard Drive So, we just gave you the best hard drives but how do you really end up concluding that this is the most suited drive for your gaming needs? Follow along as we tell you everything you need to know before purchasing as your pc gaming hard drive. We will begin by answering the one question that no one seems to agree on. Which is better between SSD and HDD? Well, no one can argue that SSD is considerably faster than the HDD. This is because unlike the HDD which stores data by manipulating magnetic fields created by spinning metal plates, the SSD uses flash memory similar to that of a USB flash drive which is much faster to read and write on. The HDD, on the other hand, is considered to be more long-lasting and is without doubt, cheaper than SSD per Gigabyte. You will be surprised to learn that it might cost you more to purchase a 500GB SSD than it would if you are buying a 4TB HDD. So, to answer the question, I will say that it depends on what you are really after. Personally, I recommend the HDD since as much as it is slower than the SSD, it's not extremely slow, and it's something you can easily compromise especially considering the amount of money you will be saving. What factors to consider while buying a Hard Disk? Following factors should be considered: External vs. Internal HDD Size of the disk Rotation Speed Cache Memory Manufacturer Here are more details: To avoid disappointments after buying the hard disk, you need to ask yourself some few questions and also familiarize yourself with some of the important features of the hard drives. This way you have a better understanding of what you are really getting. Which are these factors? External vs. Internal HDD source The main advantage of the external hard disks is their portability. Which also makes them perfect backups in case your PC is compromised. Desktop PCs allow you room to add extra hard disks, but if you are using a laptop or other gaming device, you will have to replace your existing hard drive. Size of the disk I am assuming the main reason you are buying the hard disk is so that you eliminate the need to have to delete some files when you want to install a new game or add modifications. Also, at a time when a single game can take up to 100GB, Call of Duty WWII is 90GB; it only makes sense that you select the hard disk that will allow you sufficient storage. Rotation Speed The hard drives store information on spinning magnetic plates. Right? Now, the faster these plates spin then, the faster the load and access time. The rotation is measured in RPM (Rotations per Minute), and although we recommend hard disks with 7200RPM, you can still make do with 5400RPM. Cache Memory This functions very much like Computer RAM Memory by storing important files temporarily so that it takes less time to access this data on the disk. Generally, the larger the Cache size, the faster the hard disk will be. However, the difference is not major, and as such, this should not be the biggest determiner. Manufacturer With so many hard disk brands, it’s comforting to know that your hard disk is from a trusted brand that has been tested and proven not to disappoint. For instance, you will notice that our list has been dominated by certain brands. Of course, there is no guarantee that a hard disk will not die on you but it’s better safe than sorry. Conclusion So, there you have it. The 7 best gaming hard drives you can buy. We have tried to be as flexible as possible giving you our top recommendation for each use case. Thus, regardless of whether you do your gaming on a desktop, laptop or gaming consoles, you will definitely find the most suitable hard disk for you. Enjoy your gaming. Here is a list of Top 7 Hard Drives for Gaming along with popular specs and reason they are chosen: Product Name Capacity RPM Cache Warranty Reason Chosen Details Samsung 860 EVO 250GB | 500GB |1TB | 2TB | 4TB N/A N/A 5 year Best Internal SSD Hard Drive Check Price WD Black 250GB | 320GB | 500GB | 750GB | 1TB | 2TB | 4TB | 6TB 7200RPM 32MB 5 year Best Internal HDD for Laptops Check Price Seagate FireCuda SSHD 1TB | 2TB 7200RPM 64MB 2 Years Best Hybrid HDD Check Price Seagate Game Drive 500GB | 1TB | 2TB | 4TB | 8TB 7200RPM 64MB 2 Years Best for Xbox Check Price WD Caviar Blue 320GB 7200RPM 8MB 1 Years Best Budget Check Price Toshiba P300 500GB | 1TB | 2TB | 3TB 7200RPM 64MB 2 Years Best Hard Drive for Desktop PC Check Price Seagate External Hard drive 3TB | 4TB | 6TB | 8TB 5900 128MB 2 Years Best External Hard Drive Check Price   Next YOU MIGHT LIKE: DevOps Puppet Tutorial for Beginners: Resources, Classes, Manifest, Modules Before we learn Puppet, let's understand: What is Configuration Management? Configuration... Read more SDLC What is Computer Programming? Basics to Learn Coding What is Computer Programming? Computer programming is defined as a process of developing and... Read more SDLC Encryption vs Decryption: What's the Difference? Before, we understand Encryption vs. Decryption let's first understand- What is Cryptography?... Read more R Programming How to make Boxplot in R (with EXAMPLE) You can use the geometric object geom_boxplot() from ggplot2 library to draw a box plot. Box plot... Read more DevOps Top 15 DevOps Testing Tools in 2020 There are a lot of open source tools and testing frameworks available for DevOps. These frameworks assist... Read more R Programming R Data Types, Arithmetic & Logical Operators with Example In this tutorial, you will learn: Basic data types Variables Vectors Arithmetic Operators Logical... Read more 1) Best Hard Drive 2) Single & Dual Monitor Stands 3) Best Ergonomic Mouse 4) MOUSE for Programming & Coding 5) Best SSD Laptop 6) Best Keyboard 7) Best Monitor 8) Programmer Gift Reviews Top Tutorials About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us Career Suggestion SAP Career Suggestion Tool Software Testing as a Career Selenium Testing Hacking Interesting eBook Blog Quiz SAP eBook SAP Java Python Execute online Execute Java Online Execute Javascript Execute HTML Execute Python Jmeter Informatica JIRA © Copyright - Guru99 2020         Privacy Policy  |  Affiliate Disclaimer  |  ToS
