https://www.guru99.com//cognos-tutorial.html
Cognos Tutorial for Beginners Home Testing Back Agile Testing BugZilla Cucumber Database Testing ETL Testing Jmeter JIRA Back JUnit LoadRunner Manual Testing Mobile Testing Mantis Postman QTP Back Quality Center (ALM) RPA SAP Testing Selenium SoapUI Test Management TestLink SAP Back ABAP APO Beginner Basis BODS BI BPC CO Back CRM Crystal Reports FICO HANA HR MM QM Payroll Back PI/PO PP SD SAPUI5 Security Solution Manager Successfactors SAP Tutorials Web Back Apache Android AngularJS ASP.Net C C# C++ CodeIgniter DBMS Back Java JavaScript JSP Kotlin Linux MariaDB MS Access MYSQL Node.js Back Perl PHP PL/SQL PostgreSQL Python ReactJS Ruby & Rails Scala SQL Back SQL Server SQLite UML VB.Net VBScript Web Services WPF Must Learn! Back Accounting Algorithms Blockchain Business Analyst Build Website CCNA Cloud Computing COBOL Compiler Design Embedded Systems Back Ethical Hacking Excel Tutorials Go Programming IoT ITIL Jenkins MIS Networking Operating System Prep Back PMP Photoshop Project Management Reviews Salesforce SEO Software Engineering VBA Big Data Back AWS BigData Cassandra Cognos Data Warehousing DevOps HBase Back Hive Informatica MicroStrategy MongoDB NiFi OBIEE Pentaho Back Power BI Qlikview Tableau Talend ZooKeeper Live Projects Back Live Agile Testing Live HP ALM Live Java Project Live Mobile Testing Live Payment Gateway Live PHP Project Live Projects Hub Live Python Project Back Live Selenium Project Live Selenium 2 Live Security Testing Live Testing Project Live Testing 2 Live Telecom Live UFT/QTP Testing AI Back Artificial Intelligence Data Science Keras NLTK Back NumPy PyTorch R Programming TensorFlow Blog Cognos Tutorial for Beginners Details Last Updated: 28 March 2020 What is Cognos software? IBM's Cognos BI ( Business intelligence) is a web-based reporting and analytic tool. It helps you to perform data aggregation and create user-friendly detailed reports. Cognos also offers an option to export the report in XML or PDF format. It allows you to view the reports in XML format. In this Cognos Training, you will learn: What is Cognos software? History of Cognos BI Features of IBM Cognos Component in Cognos How to Download and Install Cognos Types of Cognos Other major Important BI vendors Advantages of using Cognos Disadvantages of Cognos History of Cognos BI Cognos software was founded in 1969 by Alan Rushforth and Peter Glenister. It began as a consulting firm for the Canadian Government and offered its first software product, QUIZ, in 1979 Originally Quasar Systems Limited, it adopted the name Cognos in the year 1982. Cognos name is derived from a fragment scissor off the Latin word "cognosco. It means "knowledge from personal experience." In 1995, Ron Zambonini was appointed as a CEO of and Cognos. IBM formally announced its acquisition of Cognos in November 2007 for the sum of $4.9 billion. From January 1, 2009, the software is called "Cognos Bl and Financial Performance Management" or Cognos Bl and FPM. In January 2010, Cognos acquired SPSS were brought together to create the Business Analytics division. On October 2015, at the IBM Insight conference in Las Vegas, announced a redesigned version 11 and upgraded from Cognos BI software and renamed it Cognos Analytics. On 29th June 2018, Cognos Analytics Released version 12 Features of IBM Cognos Following are important features of Cognos. Offers In-memory streaming analytics Provides Real-time events, alerts, and notifications. Intuitive, appealing Web 2.0 interface Personalized and progressive interaction Drag-and-drop, free-form assembly, and search-assisted authoring Wizard-driven external data Automatic access to SAP BW queries Allows features like scenario modeling, real-time monitoring, and predictive analytics User can edit existing data. Drill-Through Capability. Potential Image Documentation Integration. It is platform independent, scalable, and reliable. Offers secure data as it is guarded by a firewall Component in Cognos Here are the important components of Cognos: Cognos Connection: Cognos connection is a web portal that allows users to access Cognos 10 and studios. Based on the role that you have been assigned, you can use this component to retrieve, view, publish, manage, and organize companies' reports, scoreboards, and agents. The Administrator also using Cognos Connection to establish roles and user permissions and manage the Cognos Connection content. Cognos Business Insight Cognos Business Insight offers allows users can create their dashboard using any object. All content which the user is permitted to view will be presented as an object. This can be used in your workspace to create a fully personalized dashboard. Cognos Query Studio: Cognos Query Studio helps business users get fast answers to business related queries. It helps an organization to have better understand the product, customer, and organizational needs. Helps them to react quickly and stay ahead of the competition. Cognos Analysis Studio: IBM Cognos Analysis Studio helps business users get fast answers to business related queries. This helps the organization to have better understand the product, customer, and organizational needs. Helps them to react quickly and stay ahead of the competition. Cognos Business Insight Advanced: Cognos business insight Advanced is a new module included in Cognos 10. It combines Cognos query studio and Cognos Analysis Studio. It offers robust authoring environment for business peoples. Cognos Report Studio: Using this Cognos tool, you can create pixel-perfect reports for your organization. It allows you to create charts, maps, lists, or any other available report type using relational or multidimensional data sources. Cognos Event Studio: This tool allows you to assign a specific event that sends a notification to the stakeholder in your organization. You can create agents which enables you to your events and thresholds. Therefore, the event occurs or threshold is reached the agent sends the notification. Cognos Metric Studio: Cognos Metric Studio allows you to monitor and analyze business metrics of your organization by building a scorecard environment. It also helps you to establish criteria and then monitor your organization to see how it is responding as the changes made in the criteria. How to Download and Install Cognos Step 1) Visit https://www.ibm.com/products/cognos-analytics Step 2) In the Home screen select "Start your free trial" button. Step 3) Register yourself by filling the below-given form. Step 4) Select the "Proceed button" at the bottom of the screen. Step 5) 1. Enter the code that you have received in your Inbox. 2. Click on Verify button Step 6) You will see Home Screen, the message "Welcome to IBM Cognos Analytics." Types of Cognos Here, are Important Cognos tool: Content Store: It is set of database tables which are used by the Content Manager to store application data of the Cognos. Content Manager: The Cognos manager helps you to manage storage and retrieval of report specifications, configuration data, published packages, from the content store database. Cognos Content Database: Cognos content database is a self-contained database server which is used to host the content store database in demo environments when enterprise DMBS in unavailable. Other major Important BI vendors Business Objects ( Owned by SAP ) Information Builders - Focus & WebFocus. Microsoft – SSRS/SSIS/SSAS MicroStrategy OBIEE ( Oracle ) QlikTech - QlikView SAS Advantages of using Cognos Here, are pros/ benefits of using Cognos: You can publish and Cognos-enabled files to the secure BI portal. Cognos BI provides a limitless workspace to support how people think and work. It offers various BI capabilities like query and reporting, analysis, and score carding using single architecture. Easily view - assemble and personalize information. Helps you to analyze fact and anticipate tactical and strategic implications Allows you to collaborate to establish decision networks to share insights and drive towards collective intelligence. Offers transparency and accountability to drive alignment and consensus. Helps you to communicate and coordinate tasks to engage the right people at the right time Allows you to Integrate and link analytics to business workflow solutions and process. Reduced time to decision by accessing data with no latency. Helps you to Increased productivity among workers by accessing data for intraday decisions. Allows users to share and modify Cognos BI content using known applications and interfaces. It supports the leading RDBMS to persist data that is related to content management and reporting. Improved productivity through proactive through real-time notifications and workflow. Distribute business intelligence to everyday users. Disadvantages of Cognos Here are cons/drawbacks of using Cognos Cognos Bi has also not been accepted very eagerly in departmental or divisional deployments. No support for any Multi-dimensional analysis. Summary IBM's Cognos BI is a web-based reporting and analytics tool Cognos software was founded in 1969 by Alan Rushforth and Peter Glenister. Cognos BI offers real-time events, alerts, and notifications. Cognos connection is a web portal that allows users to access Cognos 10 and studios Cognos Business Insight offers allows users can create their dashboard using any object. Cognos Analysis Studio helps business users get fast answers to business-related queries. Reporting studio allows you to create pixel-perfect reports for your organization. Cognos event studio allows you to assign a specific event that sends a notification to the stakeholder in your organization. Cognos Metric Studio allows you to monitor and analyze business metrics of your organization by building a scorecard environment. Important types of Cognos tools are 1) Content store 2) Content manager 3) Content database. Other major Important BI vendors are Business Objects, Microsoft – SSRS/SSIS/SSAS, MicroStrategy, OBIEE, QlikView, and SAS. The major advantage of Cognos BI is that it offers various BI capabilities like query and reporting, analysis, and score carding using single architecture.   Prev Report a Bug Next YOU MIGHT LIKE: Course Apache ZooKeeper Tutorial: What is, Architecture & Installation What is a Distributed System? A distributed application is an application which can run on... Read more R Programming IF, ELSE, ELSE IF Statement in R The if else statement An if-else statement is a great tool for the developer trying to return an... Read more Blog NeoLoad with Selenium Tutorial Why Selenium and NeoLoad? Selenium is a favorite tool for implementing functional tests using real... Read more R Programming SAS vs R: What's the Difference? What is SAS? SAS stands for S tatistical A nalysis S oftware which is used for Data Analytics. It helps... Read more R Programming Top 18 R Programming Interview Questions & Answers 1) Explain what is R? R is data analysis software which is used by analysts, quants,... Read more Business Analyst Top 10 Microsoft Visio Interview Questions & Answers 1) Explain what is Microsoft visio? Microsoft vision is a diagramming tool designed by Microsoft in... Read more Trending Course Top Tutorials About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us Career Suggestion SAP Career Suggestion Tool Software Testing as a Career Selenium Testing Hacking Interesting eBook Blog Quiz SAP eBook SAP Java Python Execute online Execute Java Online Execute Javascript Execute HTML Execute Python Jmeter Informatica JIRA © Copyright - Guru99 2020         Privacy Policy  |  Affiliate Disclaimer  |  ToS
