https://www.guru99.com//robotic-process-automation-tutorial.html
Robotic Process Automation (RPA) Tutorial: What is, Tools & Example Home Testing Back Agile Testing BugZilla Cucumber Database Testing ETL Testing Jmeter JIRA Back JUnit LoadRunner Manual Testing Mobile Testing Mantis Postman QTP Back Quality Center (ALM) RPA SAP Testing Selenium SoapUI Test Management TestLink SAP Back ABAP APO Beginner Basis BODS BI BPC CO Back CRM Crystal Reports FICO HANA HR MM QM Payroll Back PI/PO PP SD SAPUI5 Security Solution Manager Successfactors SAP Tutorials Web Back Apache Android AngularJS ASP.Net C C# C++ CodeIgniter DBMS Back Java JavaScript JSP Kotlin Linux MariaDB MS Access MYSQL Node.js Back Perl PHP PL/SQL PostgreSQL Python ReactJS Ruby & Rails Scala SQL Back SQL Server SQLite UML VB.Net VBScript Web Services WPF Must Learn! Back Accounting Algorithms Blockchain Business Analyst Build Website CCNA Cloud Computing COBOL Compiler Design Embedded Systems Back Ethical Hacking Excel Tutorials Go Programming IoT ITIL Jenkins MIS Networking Operating System Prep Back PMP Photoshop Project Management Reviews Salesforce SEO Software Engineering VBA Big Data Back AWS BigData Cassandra Cognos Data Warehousing DevOps HBase Back Hive Informatica MicroStrategy MongoDB NiFi OBIEE Pentaho Back Power BI Qlikview Tableau Talend ZooKeeper Live Projects Back Live Agile Testing Live HP ALM Live Java Project Live Mobile Testing Live Payment Gateway Live PHP Project Live Projects Hub Live Python Project Back Live Selenium Project Live Selenium 2 Live Security Testing Live Testing Project Live Testing 2 Live Telecom Live UFT/QTP Testing AI Back Artificial Intelligence Data Science Keras NLTK Back NumPy PyTorch R Programming TensorFlow Blog Robotic Process Automation (RPA) Tutorial: What is, Tools & Example Details Last Updated: 11 April 2020 What is Robotic Process Automation? Robotics Process Automation(RPA) allows organizations to automate task just like a human being was doing them across application and systems. The purpose of RPA is to transfer the process execution from humans to bots. Robotic automation interacts with the existing IT architecture with no complex system integration required. RPA can be used to automate workflow, infrastructure, back office process which are labor intensive. These software bots can interact with an in-house application, website, user portal, etc. The RPA is a software program which runs on an end user's pc, laptop or mobile device. It is a sequence of commands which are executed by Bots under some defined set of business rules. The main goal of Robotics process automation process to replace repetitive and boring clerical task performed by humans, with a virtual workforce. RPA does not require the development of code, nor does it require direct access to the code or database of the applications. What You Will Learn: [hide] Why Robotic Process Automation? Example of RPA Differences between Test Automation and RPA RPA Implementation Methodology Best Practices of RPA Implementation General Use of RPA Application of RPA Robotic Process Automation tools Benefits of RPA Myths of RPA Why Robotic Process Automation? Consider the following scenario in a typical enterprise The business climate is ever changing. An enterprise needs to continuously evolve its product, sales, marketing, etc. process to grow and stay relevant A typical enterprise uses multiple and disconnected IT systems to run its operations. With change in Business process, these IT systems are not changed frequently due to budget, timing, and implementation complexity issues. Hence, the business process does not map the technical process mapped in the IT system. To overcome this technical and organization debt human workforce is hired to fill the gap between systems and processes. Example: A company made changes in Sales process such that a mandatory 50% advance is required to confirm the booking of its product. But this is not coded in the IT system yet. A human worker will have to manual check the Invoice and payment details and process the sales order only if 50% advance is made. The problem? --- Humans With any change in the business process, a company would need to hire new employees or train existing employees to map IT system and business process. Both solutions are time and money consuming. Also, with any succeeding business process change will also need hiring or re-training. Enter RPA With Robotic automation, the company can deploy virtual workers who mimic human workers. In case of a change in process, a change in few lines of software code is always faster and cheaper than retraining hundreds of employees. Here, are some reasons why Robotics Process Automation is advantageous A human can work average 8 hours a day whereas robots can work 24hours without any tiredness. The average productivity of human is 60% with few errors as compared to Robot's productivity which is 100% without any errors. Robots handle multiple tasks very well compared to a human being Example of RPA Consider the following Invoice Processing Business process Description Can be Automated via RPA? Open invoice email from the supplier and print it for records Yes Barcode Scanning Manual Create work item in a legacy software system Yes Enter PO to retrieve Invoices Yes Check supplier name is correct or not? Yes Key Invoice, Data and Amount Yes Match PO and Invoice Yes Check if Amount is matches or not? Yes If amount match Matches Invoice, Calculate Tax Yes Complete Invoice Processing Yes Work Item Closed Yes If Amount does not match Hold, follow with vendor Yes Supplier accepts or resends Invoice Yes If Supplier name is incorrect to hold a pass to exception team Yes Flag for exception handling Yes Differences between Test Automation and RPA There is multiple overlaps between a Test Automation Tool and RPA tool. For instance, they both drive screen, keyboard, mouse, etc. and have similar tech architecture. But following are the key differences between the two Parameter Test Automation RPA Goal Reduce Test execution time through automation Reduce headcount through automation Task Automate repetitive Test Cases Automate repetitive Business processes Coding Coding knowledge required to create Test Scripts Wizard-driven, and coding knowledge not required Tech Approach Supports limited software environment. Example: Selenium can support only web applications. Supports a wide array of software environments Example Test cases are automated Data entry, forms, loan processing, is automated Application Test Automation can be run on QA, Production, Performance, UAT environments RPA is usually run only on production environments Implementation It can automate a product. It can automate a product as well as a service. Users Limited to technical users. Can be used across the board by all stakeholders. Role Acts as a virtual assistant. Acts as a virtual workforce. AI Can execute only what is coded. Many RPA tools come with an AI engine can process information like a human Again, RPA tools like UIPath, Blueprism can be used for test automation. Vice versa, advanced automation tools like UFT can be used for RPA if you have good coding skill. But RPA tools for more fit for purpose. RPA Implementation Methodology Planning In this phase, you need to Identify processes which you want to automate. Following checklist will help you identify the correct process Is the process manual & repetitive? Is the process Rule-based? Is the input data is in electronic format and is readable? Can existing System be used as it is with no change? Next, steps in planning phase are Setup project team, finalize implementation timelines and approach. Agree on solution design for performing RPA processes. Identify logging mechanism that should be implemented to find issues with running bots. Clear roadmap should be defined to scale up RPA implementation Development In this phase, you start developing the automation workflows as per agreed plan. Being wizard driven, the implementation is quick Testing In this phase, you run Testing cycles for in-scope automation to identify and correct defects Support & Maintenance Provide continuous support after going live and helps in immediate defect resolution. Follow general maintenance guidelines with roles and responsibilities with business and IT support teams. Best Practices of RPA Implementation One should consider business impact before opting for RPA process Define and focus on the desired ROI Focus on targeting larger groups and automating large, impactful processes Combine attended and unattended RPA Poor design, change management can wreak havoc Don't forget the impact on people Governance of the project is foremost thing in RPA process. Policy, Corporate, Government compliance should be ensured. General Use of RPA 1. Emulates Human Action: Emulates human execution of the repetitive process using various application and systems. 2. Conduct high-volume repeated tasks: Robotics process automation can easily simulate rekeying of data from one system to another. It performs tasks like data entry, copying, and pasting. 3. Perform Multiple Tasks: Operates multiple and complex tasks across multiple systems. This helps to process transactions, manipulate data and send reports. 4. 'Virtual' system integration: This automation system can transfer data between disparate and legacy systems by connecting them at the user interface level instead of developing new data infrastructure. 5. Automated report generation: Automates the extraction of data to comes up with accurate, effective and timely reports. 6. Information validation and auditing: Resolves and cross-verify data between different systems to validate and check information to provide compliance and auditing outputs. 7. Technical debt management: Helps to reduce technical debt by reducing the gap between systems, preventing the introduction of custom implementations. 8. Product management: It helps to bridge the gap between IT systems and related product management platforms by automated updating of both systems. 9. Quality Assurance: It can be beneficial to QA processes which cover regression testing and automating customer use case scenarios. 10. Data migration: Allows automated data migration through systems which is not possible using traditional mediums, like document, spreadsheets or other source data files. 11. Gap solutions: Robotic automatic fills the gaps with process deficiencies. It includes may simple tasks as password resets, the system resets, etc. 12. Revenue forecasting: Automatically updating financial statements to predict revenue forecasting. Application of RPA Industry Usage Healthcare Patient registration Billing HR New employee joining formalities Payroll process Hiring shortlisted candidates Insurance Claims Processing & Clearance Premium Information Manufacturing & Retail Bills of material Calculation of Sales Telecom Service Order Management Quality Reporting Travel & Logistic Ticket booking Passenger Details Accounting Banking and Financial Services Cards activation Frauds claims Discovery Government Change of Address License Renewal Infrastructure Issues Processing Account setup and communication Robotic Process Automation tools Selection of RPA Tool should be based on following 4 parameters: Data: Easy of reading and writing business data into multiple systems Type of Tasks mainly performed: Ease of configuring rules-based or knowledge-based processes. Interoperability: Tools should work across multiple applications AI: Built-in AI support to mimic human users Popular Robotic Automation Tools: 1) Blue prism Blue Prism is a Robotic Process Automation software. It provides businesses and organizations with an agile digital workforce. Download link: https://www.blueprism.com/ 2) Automation AnyWhere Automation Anywhere is a developer of robotic process automation (RPA) software. Download link: https://www.automationanywhere.com/ 3) UiPath UiPath is Robotic Process Automation software. It helps organizations efficiently automate business processes. Download link: https://www.uipath.com/ Benefits of RPA Some benefits that RPA can provide to your organization: Large numbers of the process can easily have automated. Cost are reduced significantly as the RPA takes care of repetitive task and saves precious time and resources. Programming skills are not needed to configure a software robot. Thus, any non-technical staff can set up a bot or even record their steps to automate the process. Robotic process automation support and allows all regular compliance process, with error-free auditing. The robotic software can rapidly model and deploy the automation process. The defects are tracked for each test case story and the sprint. Effective, seamless Build & Release Management Real time visibility into bug/defect discovery There is no human business which means there is no need for time for the requirement of training. Software robots do not get tired. It increases which helps to increase the scalability. Disadvantages of RPA: Let's not forgot some cons of the RPA process: The bot is limited to the speed of the application Even small changes made in the automation application will need the robots to be reconfigured. Myths of RPA: Coding is required to use RPA software That's not true. To use Robotics Process Automation tools, one needs to understand how the software works on the front-end and can how they can use for automation. RPA software does not require human supervision This is an illusion because humans are needed to program the RPA bot, feed them tasks for automation and manage them. Only large big companies can afford to deploy RPA Small to medium-sized organizations can deploy RPA to automate their business. However, initial costing will be high but can be recovered in 4-5 years. RPA is useful only in industries that rely heavily on software RPA can be used to generate automated bills, invoice, telephone service, etc. which are used across industries irrespective of their software exposure. Summary: Robotics Process Automation allows organizations to automate task just like a human being was doing them across application and systems. The main goal of Robotics process automation process to replace repetitive and boring clerical task performed by humans, with a virtual workforce. The average productivity of human is 60% with few errors as compared to Robot's productivity which is 100% without any errors. One should consider business impact before opting for RPA process There is multiple overlaps between a Test Automation Tool and RPA tool. Though they are still different RPA implementation has 4 phases 1) Planning 2) Development 3) Testing 4) Support & Maintenance RPA is used in wide range of industries like Healthcare, Insurance, Banking, IT etc   Next YOU MIGHT LIKE: Software Testing Top 40 QA Interview Questions & Answers 1) What is the difference between the QA and software testing? The role of QA (Quality Assurance) is to... Read more Software Testing What is Data Driven Testing? Learn to create Framework What is Data Driven Testing? DATA DRIVEN TESTING is a test automation framework that stores test... Read more SDLC 10 Best Programming Language to Learn in 2020 With time old programming languages become obsolete while new programming languages are launched,... Read more SDLC SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) Tutorial: What is, Phases, Model What is SDLC? SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT LIFECYCLE (SDLC) is a systematic process for building software that... Read more Software Testing Quality Management Plan Template with Sample Project Example Download the below Quality Management Plan Template 1 Overview 1.1 Purpose of this Quality... Read more Agile Testing Scrum Vs. Kanban: Know the Difference What is Scrum? Scrum is an agile process that helps to deliver the business value in the shortest time.... Read more RPA 1) Robotic Process Automation 2) Blue Prism Tutorial 3) UiPath Tutorial 4) Automation Anywhere Tutorial 5) RPA Interview Q & A 6) RPA Tools 7) Low-Code Development Platforms Top Tutorials About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us Career Suggestion SAP Career Suggestion Tool Software Testing as a Career Selenium Testing Hacking Interesting eBook Blog Quiz SAP eBook SAP Java Python Execute online Execute Java Online Execute Javascript Execute HTML Execute Python Jmeter Informatica JIRA © Copyright - Guru99 2020         Privacy Policy  |  Affiliate Disclaimer  |  ToS
