https://www.guru99.com//java-this-keyword.html
THIS Keyword in Java with Example Home Testing Back Agile Testing BugZilla Cucumber Database Testing ETL Testing Jmeter JIRA Back JUnit LoadRunner Manual Testing Mobile Testing Mantis Postman QTP Back Quality Center (ALM) RPA SAP Testing Selenium SoapUI Test Management TestLink SAP Back ABAP APO Beginner Basis BODS BI BPC CO Back CRM Crystal Reports FICO HANA HR MM QM Payroll Back PI/PO PP SD SAPUI5 Security Solution Manager Successfactors SAP Tutorials Web Back Apache Android AngularJS ASP.Net C C# C++ CodeIgniter DBMS Back Java JavaScript JSP Kotlin Linux MariaDB MS Access MYSQL Node.js Back Perl PHP PL/SQL PostgreSQL Python ReactJS Ruby & Rails Scala SQL Back SQL Server SQLite UML VB.Net VBScript Web Services WPF Must Learn! Back Accounting Algorithms Blockchain Business Analyst Build Website CCNA Cloud Computing COBOL Compiler Design Embedded Systems Back Ethical Hacking Excel Tutorials Go Programming IoT ITIL Jenkins MIS Networking Operating System Prep Back PMP Photoshop Project Management Reviews Salesforce SEO Software Engineering VBA Big Data Back AWS BigData Cassandra Cognos Data Warehousing DevOps HBase Back Hive Informatica MicroStrategy MongoDB NiFi OBIEE Pentaho Back Power BI Qlikview Tableau Talend ZooKeeper Live Projects Back Live Agile Testing Live HP ALM Live Java Project Live Mobile Testing Live Payment Gateway Live PHP Project Live Projects Hub Live Python Project Back Live Selenium Project Live Selenium 2 Live Security Testing Live Testing Project Live Testing 2 Live Telecom Live UFT/QTP Testing AI Back Artificial Intelligence Data Science Keras NLTK Back NumPy PyTorch R Programming TensorFlow Blog THIS Keyword in Java with Example Details Last Updated: 25 March 2020 What is THIS Keyword in Java? Keyword THIS is a reference variable in Java that refers to the current object. The various usages of 'THIS' keyword in Java are as follows: It can be used to refer instance variable of current class It can be used to invoke or initiate current class constructor It can be passed as an argument in the method call It can be passed as argument in the constructor call It can be used to return the current class instance Click here if the video is not accessible Understand 'this' keyword with an example. Class: class Account Instance Variable: a and b Method Set data: To set the value for a and b. Method Show data: To display the values for a and b. Main method: where we create an object for Account class and call methods set data and show data. Let's compile and run the code Our expected output for A and B should be initialized to the values 2 and 3 respectively. But the value is 0, Why? Let investigate. In the method Set data, the arguments are declared as a and b, while the instance variables are also named as a and b. During execution, the compiler is confused. Whether "a" on the left side of the assigned operator is the instance variable or the local variable. Hence, it does not set the value of 'a' when the method set data is called. The solution is the "THIS" keyword Append both 'a' and 'b' with the "this" keyword followed by a dot (.) operator. During code execution when an object calls the method 'setdata'. The keyword 'this' is replaced by the object handler "obj." (See the image below). So now the compiler knows, The 'a' on the left-hand side is an Instance variable. Whereas the 'a' on right-hand side is a local variable The variables are initialized correctly, and the expected output is shown. Suppose you are smart enough to choose different names for your instance variable and methods arguments. But this time around, you create two objects of the class, each calling the set data method. How the compiler will determine whether it is supposed to work on instance variable of object 1 or object 2. Well, the compiler implicitly appends the instance variable with "THIS" keyword (image below). Such that when object 1 is calling the set data method, an instance variable is appended by its reference variable. While object 2 is calling the set data method, an instance variable of object 2 is modified. This process is taken care by the compiler itself. You don't have to append 'this' keyword explicitly unless there is an exceptional situation as in our example. Example: To learn the use "this" keyword Step 1) Copy the following code into a notepad. class Account{
int a;
int b;

 public void setData(int a ,int b){
  a = a;
  b = b;
 }
 public void showData(){
   System.out.println("Value of A ="+a);
   System.out.println("Value of B ="+b);
 }
 public static void main(String args[]){
   Account obj = new Account();
   obj.setData(2,3);
   obj.showData();
 }
} Step 2) Save ,Compile & Run the code. Step 3) Value of a & b is shown as zero? To correct the error append line # 6 & 7 with "this" keyword. this.a =a;
this.b =b;
 Step 4) Save, Compile, and Run the code. This time around, values of a & b are set to 2 & 3 respectively. Summary Keyword 'THIS' in Java is a reference variable that refers to the current object. It can be used to refer current class instance variable It can be used to invoke or initiate current class constructor It can be passed as an argument in the method call It can be passed as argument in the constructor call It can be used to return the current class instance "this" is a reference to the current object, whose method is being called upon. You can use "this" keyword to avoid naming conflicts in the method/constructor of your instance/object.   Prev Report a Bug Next YOU MIGHT LIKE: Java Tutorials Palindrome Program in Java: Check number is Palindrome or Not What is Palindrome Number? A Palindrome Number is a number that even when reversed is same as... Read more Java Tutorials Apache ANT Tutorial: Installation, Project Structure, Build Example What is a Build Tool? A build tool is a programming tool which is used to build a new version of a... Read more JavaScript JavaScript Unit Testing Frameworks What is JavaScript? JavaScript is a programming language which is defined as high level, dynamic and... Read more Java Tutorials Top 22 Groovy Interview Questions & Answers 1) Explain what is Groovy? Groovy is an object-oriented programming language for JVM (Java Virtual... Read more Java Tutorials Java vs C# - 10 Key Differences between Java and C# What is Java? Java was released by Sun Microsystem in 1995. It was developed by James Gosling. It is a... Read more Java Tutorials String indexOf() Method in Java with EXAMPLE What is indexOf() Method in Java? indexOf() Method is used to get index of the first occurrence of a... Read more 1) Java Platform 2) Java Virtual Machine 3) How to install java 4) Download & Install Java in Linux 5) First Java Program 6) Concept of OOPs 7) Data Abstraction 8) Encapsulation 9) Java Variables 10) Class & Objects 11) Java Arrays 12) Array of Objects 13) ArrayList in Java 14) Java Strings 15) String Length() Method 16) String indexOf() Method 17) String charAt() Method 18) String compareTo() Method 19) String contains() Method 20) String endsWith() Method 21) Java String replace() 22) toLowercase() & toUpperCase() 23) Convert a Java String to Integer 24) HashMaps in Java 25) Command-line 26) This Keyword 27) Garbage Collection 28) Static Variables 29) Stack Heap 30) Inheritance 31) Polymorphism 32) Abstract Method & Class 33) Java Interface 34) Interface vs Abstract Class 35) Java Constructors 36) Java Packages 37) Exception Handling 38) User-defined 39) Throws 40) Trick with For Loop 41) Switch in Java 42) Maths with Java 43) Generate Random Number 44) Date in Java 45) Multithreading in Java 46) Java GUI – Swing 47) Split a String 48) Buffered Reader 49) Java Reflection API Tutorials 50) Check Prime Number 51) Convert JSON to XML using Gson and JAXB 52) Prime Number From 1 to 100 53) Convert Char to String 54) Fibonacci Series 55) Check Armstrong Number 56) Reverse String using Recursion 57) Check Palindrome Number 58) Bubble Sort Program 59) Insertion Sort Algorithm 60) Selection Sorting 61) Java Tools for Developers 62) Groovy Script Tutorial 63) Java Spring Tutorial 64) Apache ANT Tutorial 65) JasperReports Tutorial 66) C++ Vs JAVA 67) JDK Vs JRE Vs JVM 68) Java Vs C# 69) Java Vs Python 70) Java Vs Scala 71) Java Interview Q & A 72) Java Design Patterns Interview Q & A 73) JMS Interview Q & A 74) Groovy Interview Q & A 75) JAVA Programming PDF Java Tutorials Top Tutorials About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us Career Suggestion SAP Career Suggestion Tool Software Testing as a Career Selenium Testing Hacking Interesting eBook Blog Quiz SAP eBook SAP Java Python Execute online Execute Java Online Execute Javascript Execute HTML Execute Python Jmeter Informatica JIRA © Copyright - Guru99 2020         Privacy Policy  |  Affiliate Disclaimer  |  ToS
