https://www.guru99.com//data-science-tutorial.html
What is Data Science? Tutorial for Beginners Home Testing Back Agile Testing BugZilla Cucumber Database Testing ETL Testing Jmeter JIRA Back JUnit LoadRunner Manual Testing Mobile Testing Mantis Postman QTP Back Quality Center (ALM) RPA SAP Testing Selenium SoapUI Test Management TestLink SAP Back ABAP APO Beginner Basis BODS BI BPC CO Back CRM Crystal Reports FICO HANA HR MM QM Payroll Back PI/PO PP SD SAPUI5 Security Solution Manager Successfactors SAP Tutorials Web Back Apache Android AngularJS ASP.Net C C# C++ CodeIgniter DBMS Back Java JavaScript JSP Kotlin Linux MariaDB MS Access MYSQL Node.js Back Perl PHP PL/SQL PostgreSQL Python ReactJS Ruby & Rails Scala SQL Back SQL Server SQLite UML VB.Net VBScript Web Services WPF Must Learn! Back Accounting Algorithms Blockchain Business Analyst Build Website CCNA Cloud Computing COBOL Compiler Design Embedded Systems Back Ethical Hacking Excel Tutorials Go Programming IoT ITIL Jenkins MIS Networking Operating System Prep Back PMP Photoshop Project Management Reviews Salesforce SEO Software Engineering VBA Big Data Back AWS BigData Cassandra Cognos Data Warehousing DevOps HBase Back Hive Informatica MicroStrategy MongoDB NiFi OBIEE Pentaho Back Power BI Qlikview Tableau Talend ZooKeeper Live Projects Back Live Agile Testing Live HP ALM Live Java Project Live Mobile Testing Live Payment Gateway Live PHP Project Live Projects Hub Live Python Project Back Live Selenium Project Live Selenium 2 Live Security Testing Live Testing Project Live Testing 2 Live Telecom Live UFT/QTP Testing AI Back Artificial Intelligence Data Science Keras NLTK Back NumPy PyTorch R Programming TensorFlow Blog What is Data Science? Tutorial for Beginners Details Last Updated: 02 March 2020 What is Data Science? DATA SCIENCE is the area of study which involves extracting insights from vast amounts of data by the use of various scientific methods, algorithms, and processes. It helps you to discover hidden patterns from the raw data. The term Data Science has emerged because of the evolution of mathematical statistics, data analysis, and big data. Data Science is an interdisciplinary field that allows you to extract knowledge from structured or unstructured data. Data science enables you to translate a business problem into a research project and then translate it back into a practical solution. In this tutorial, you will learn What is Data Science? Why Data Science? Data Science Components Data Science Process Data Science Jobs Roles Tools for DataScience Difference between Data Science with BI (Business Intelligence) Applications of Data science Challenges of Data science Technology Why Data Science? Here, are significant advantages of using Data Analytics Technology: Data is the oil for today's world. With the right tools, technologies, algorithms, we can use data and convert it into a distinctive business advantage Data Science can help you to detect fraud using advanced machine learning algorithms It helps you to prevent any significant monetary losses Allows to build intelligence ability in machines You can perform sentiment analysis to gauge customer brand loyalty It enables you to take better and faster decisions Helps you to recommend the right product to the right customer to enhance your business Evolution of DataSciences Data Science Components Statistics: Statistics is the most critical unit in Data science. It is the method or science of collecting and analyzing numerical data in large quantities to get useful insights. Visualization: Visualization technique helps you to access huge amounts of data in easy to understand and digestible visuals. Machine Learning: Machine Learning explores the building and study of algorithms which learn to make predictions about unforeseen/future data. Deep Learning: Deep Learning method is new machine learning research where the algorithm selects the analysis model to follow. Data Science Process 1.Discovery: Discovery step involves acquiring data from all the identified internal & external sources which helps you to answer the business question. The data can be: Logs from webservers Data gathered from social media Census datasets Data streamed from online sources using APIs 2.Data Preparation: Data can have lots of inconsistencies like missing value, blank columns, incorrect data format which needs to be cleaned. You need to process, explore, and condition data before modeling. The cleaner your data, the better are your predictions. 3.Model Planning: In this stage, you need to determine the method and technique to draw the relation between input variables. Planning for a model is performed by using different statistical formulas and visualization tools. SQL analysis services, R, and SAS/access are some of the tools used for this purpose. 4. Model Building: In this step, the actual model building process starts. Here, Data scientist distributes datasets for training and testing. Techniques like association, classification, and clustering are applied to the training data set. The model once prepared is tested against the "testing" dataset. 5. Operationalize: In this stage, you deliver the final baselined model with reports, code, and technical documents. Model is deployed into a real-time production environment after thorough testing. 6. Communicate Results In this stage, the key findings are communicated to all stakeholders. This helps you to decide if the results of the project are a success or a failure based on the inputs from the model. Data Science Jobs Roles Most prominent Data Scientist job titles are: Data Scientist Data Engineer Data Analyst Statistician Data Architect Data Admin Business Analyst Data/Analytics Manager Let's learn what each role entails in detail: Data Scientist: Role: A Data Scientist is a professional who manages enormous amounts of data to come up with compelling business visions by using various tools, techniques, methodologies, algorithms, etc. Languages: R, SAS, Python, SQL, Hive, Matlab, Pig, Spark Data Engineer: Role: The role of data engineer is of working with large amounts of data. He develops, constructs, tests, and maintains architectures like large scale processing system and databases. Languages: SQL, Hive, R, SAS, Matlab, Python, Java, Ruby, C + +, and Perl Data Analyst: Role: A data analyst is responsible for mining vast amounts of data. He or she will look for relationships, patterns, trends in data. Later he or she will deliver compelling reporting and visualization for analyzing the data to take the most viable business decisions. Languages: R, Python, HTML, JS, C, C+ + , SQL Statistician: Role: The statistician collects, analyses, understand qualitative and quantitative data by using statistical theories and methods. Languages: SQL, R, Matlab, Tableau, Python, Perl, Spark, and Hive Data Administrator: Role: Data admin should ensure that the database is accessible to all relevant users. He also makes sure that it is performing correctly and is being kept safe from hacking. Languages: Ruby on Rails, SQL, Java, C#, and Python Business Analyst: Role: This professional need to improves business processes. He/she as an intermediary between the business executive team and IT department. Languages: SQL, Tableau, Power BI and, Python Tools for DataScience Data Analysis Data warehousing Data Visualization Machine Learning R, Spark, Python and SAS Hadoop, SQL, Hive R, Tableau, Raw Spark, Azure ML studio, Mahout Difference between Data Science with BI (Business Intelligence) Parameters Business Intelligence Data Science Perception Looking Backward Looking Forward Data Sources Structured Data. Mostly SQL, but some time Data Warehouse) Structured and Unstructured data. Like logs, SQL, NoSQL, or text Approach Statistics & Visualization Statistics, Machine Learning, and Graph Emphasis Past & Present Analysis & Neuro-linguistic Programming Tools Pentaho. Microsoft Bl, QlikView, R, TensorFlow Applications of Data science Internet Search: Google search use Data science technology to search a specific result within a fraction of a second Recommendation Systems: To create a recommendation system. Example, "suggested friends" on Facebook or suggested videos" on YouTube, everything is done with the help of Data Science. Image & Speech Recognition: Speech recognizes system like Siri, Google assistant, Alexa runs on the technique of Data science. Moreover, Facebook recognizes your friend when you upload a photo with them, with the help of Data Science. Gaming world: EA Sports, Sony, Nintendo, are using Data science technology. This enhances your gaming experience. Games are now developed using Machine Learning technique. It can update itself when you move to higher levels. Online Price Comparison: PriceRunner, Junglee, Shopzilla work on the Data science mechanism. Here, data is fetched from the relevant websites using APIs. Challenges of Data science Technology High variety of information & data is required for accurate analysis Not adequate data science talent pool available Management does not provide financial support for a data science team Unavailability of/difficult access to data Data Science results not effectively used by business decision makers Explaining data science to others is difficult Privacy issues Lack of significant domain expert If an organization is very small, they can't have a Data Science team Summary Data Science is the area of study which involves extracting insights from vast amounts of data by the use of various scientific methods, algorithms, and processes. Statistics, Visualization, Deep Learning, Machine Learning, are important Data Science concepts. Data Science Process goes through Discovery, Data Preparation, Model Planning, Model Building, Operationalize, Communicate Results. Important Data Scientist job roles are: 1) Data Scientist 2) Data Engineer 3) Data Analyst 4) Statistician 5) Data Architect 6) Data Admin 7) Business Analyst 8) Data/Analytics Manager R, SQL, Python, SaS, are essential Data science tools The predictions of Business Intelligence is looking backward while for Data Science it is looking forward. Important applications of Data science are 1) Internet Search 2) Recommendation Systems 3) Image & Speech Recognition 4) Gaming world 5) Online Price Comparison. High variety of information & data is the biggest challenge of Data Science technology.   Next YOU MIGHT LIKE: Data Warehousing Difference Between Fact Table and Dimension Table Fact Table: A fact table is a primary table in a dimensional model. A Fact Table contains... Read more Data Warehousing Information vs Knowledge: Key Differences What is Information? Information is a set of data that is processed in a meaningful way according to... Read more Data Warehousing 22+ BEST ETL Tools in 2020 ETL is a process that extracts the data from different RDBMS source systems, then transforms the... Read more Data Warehousing 5 Best ETL Automation Testing Tools in 2020 ETL testing is performed before data is moved into a production data warehouse system. It is also... Read more Data Warehousing ETL (Extract, Transform, and Load) Process What is ETL? ETL is a process that extracts the data from different source systems, then... Read more Course Keras Tutorial for Beginners with Python: Deep Learning EXAMPLE What is Keras? KERAS is an Open Source Neural Network library written in Python that runs on top... Read more Data Science Tutorial 1) What is Data Science? 2) SAS Tutorial 3) What is Data Analysis? 4) Data Science Courses 5) Data Science Interview Q & A 6) Best Free Statistics Courses 7) Data Engineer Interview Q & A Top Tutorials About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us Career Suggestion SAP Career Suggestion Tool Software Testing as a Career Selenium Testing Hacking Interesting eBook Blog Quiz SAP eBook SAP Java Python Execute online Execute Java Online Execute Javascript Execute HTML Execute Python Jmeter Informatica JIRA © Copyright - Guru99 2020         Privacy Policy  |  Affiliate Disclaimer  |  ToS
