https://www.guru99.com//operating-system-tutorial.html
Operating System Tutorial: What is, Introduction, Features & Types Home Testing Back Agile Testing BugZilla Cucumber Database Testing ETL Testing Jmeter JIRA Back JUnit LoadRunner Manual Testing Mobile Testing Mantis Postman QTP Back Quality Center (ALM) RPA SAP Testing Selenium SoapUI Test Management TestLink SAP Back ABAP APO Beginner Basis BODS BI BPC CO Back CRM Crystal Reports FICO HANA HR MM QM Payroll Back PI/PO PP SD SAPUI5 Security Solution Manager Successfactors SAP Tutorials Web Back Apache Android AngularJS ASP.Net C C# C++ CodeIgniter DBMS Back Java JavaScript JSP Kotlin Linux MariaDB MS Access MYSQL Node.js Back Perl PHP PL/SQL PostgreSQL Python ReactJS Ruby & Rails Scala SQL Back SQL Server SQLite UML VB.Net VBScript Web Services WPF Must Learn! Back Accounting Algorithms Blockchain Business Analyst Build Website CCNA Cloud Computing COBOL Compiler Design Embedded Systems Back Ethical Hacking Excel Tutorials Go Programming IoT ITIL Jenkins MIS Networking Operating System Prep Back PMP Photoshop Project Management Reviews Salesforce SEO Software Engineering VBA Big Data Back AWS BigData Cassandra Cognos Data Warehousing DevOps HBase Back Hive Informatica MicroStrategy MongoDB NiFi OBIEE Pentaho Back Power BI Qlikview Tableau Talend ZooKeeper Live Projects Back Live Agile Testing Live HP ALM Live Java Project Live Mobile Testing Live Payment Gateway Live PHP Project Live Projects Hub Live Python Project Back Live Selenium Project Live Selenium 2 Live Security Testing Live Testing Project Live Testing 2 Live Telecom Live UFT/QTP Testing AI Back Artificial Intelligence Data Science Keras NLTK Back NumPy PyTorch R Programming TensorFlow Blog Operating System Tutorial: What is, Introduction, Features & Types Details Last Updated: 14 April 2020 What is an Operating System? An Operating system (OS) is a software which acts as an interface between the end user and computer hardware. Every computer must have at least one OS to run other programs. An application like Chrome, MS Word, Games, etc needs some environment in which it will run and perform its task. The OS helps you to communicate with the computer without knowing how to speak the computer's language. It is not possible for the user to use any computer or mobile device without having an operating system. In this tutorial, you will learn: Examples of Operating System with Market Share History Of OS Features of Operating System What is a Kernel? Functions of an Operating System Types of Operating system Difference between Firmware and Operating System Difference between 32-Bit vs. 64 Bit Operating System The advantage of using Operating System Disadvantages of using Operating System Examples of Operating System with Market Share Here is a list of Operating Systems with the latest MarketShare OS Name Share Windows 40.34 Android 37.95 iOS 15.44 Mac OS 4.34 Linux 0.95 Chrome OS 0.14 Windows Phone OS 0.06 History Of OS Operating systems were first developed in the late 1950s to manage tape storage The General Motors Research Lab implemented the first OS in the early 1950s for their IBM 701 In the mid-1960s, operating systems started to use disks In the late 1960s, the first version of the Unix OS was developed The first OS built by Microsoft was DOS. It was built in 1981 by purchasing the 86-DOS software from a Seattle company The present-day popular OS Windows first came to existence in 1985 when a GUI was created and paired with MS-DOS. Features of Operating System Here is a list commonly found important features of an Operating System: Protected and supervisor mode Allows disk access and file systems Device drivers Networking Security Program Execution Memory management Virtual Memory Multitasking Handling I/O operations Manipulation of the file system Error Detection and handling Resource allocation Information and Resource Protection What is a Kernel? The kernel is the central component of a computer operating systems. The only job performed by the kernel is to the manage the communication between the software and the hardware. A Kernel is at the nucleus of a computer. It makes the communication between the hardware and software possible. While the Kernel is the innermost part of an operating system, a shell is the outermost one. Features of Kennel Low-level scheduling of processes Inter-process communication Process synchronization Context switching Types of Kernels There are many types of kernels that exists, but among them, the two most popular kernels are: 1.Monolithic A monolithic kernel is a single code or block of the program. It provides all the required services offered by the operating system. It is a simplistic design which creates a distinct communication layer between the hardware and software. 2. Microkernels Microkernel manages all system resources. In this type of kernel, services are implemented in different address space. The user services are stored in user address space, and kernel services are stored under kernel address space. So, it helps to reduce the size of both the kernel and operating system. Functions of an Operating System Function of an Operating System In an operating system software performs each of the function: Process management:- Process management helps OS to create and delete processes. It also provides mechanisms for synchronization and communication among processes. Memory management:- Memory management module performs the task of allocation and de-allocation of memory space to programs in need of this resources. File management:- It manages all the file-related activities such as organization storage, retrieval, naming, sharing, and protection of files. Device Management: Device management keeps tracks of all devices. This module also responsible for this task is known as the I/O controller. It also performs the task of allocation and de-allocation of the devices. I/O System Management: One of the main objects of any OS is to hide the peculiarities of that hardware devices from the user. Secondary-Storage Management: Systems have several levels of storage which includes primary storage, secondary storage, and cache storage. Instructions and data must be stored in primary storage or cache so that a running program can reference it. Security:- Security module protects the data and information of a computer system against malware threat and authorized access. Command interpretation: This module is interpreting commands given by the and acting system resources to process that commands. Networking: A distributed system is a group of processors which do not share memory, hardware devices, or a clock. The processors communicate with one another through the network. Job accounting: Keeping track of time & resource used by various job and users. Communication management: Coordination and assignment of compilers, interpreters, and another software resource of the various users of the computer systems. Types of Operating system Batch Operating System Multitasking/Time Sharing OS Multiprocessing OS Real Time OS Distributed OS Network OS Mobile OS Batch Operating System Some computer processes are very lengthy and time-consuming. To speed the same process, a job with a similar type of needs are batched together and run as a group. The user of a batch operating system never directly interacts with the computer. In this type of OS, every user prepares his or her job on an offline device like a punch card and submit it to the computer operator. Multi-Tasking/Time-sharing Operating systems Time-sharing operating system enables people located at a different terminal(shell) to use a single computer system at the same time. The processor time (CPU) which is shared among multiple users is termed as time sharing. Real time OS A real time operating system time interval to process and respond to inputs is very small. Examples: Military Software Systems, Space Software Systems. Distributed Operating System Distributed systems use many processors located in different machines to provide very fast computation to its users. Network Operating System Network Operating System runs on a server. It provides the capability to serve to manage data, user, groups, security, application, and other networking functions. Mobile OS Mobile operating systems are those OS which is especially that are designed to power smartphones, tablets, and wearables devices. Some most famous mobile operating systems are Android and iOS, but others include BlackBerry, Web, and watchOS. Difference between Firmware and Operating System Firmware Operating System Firmware is one kind of programming that is embedded on a chip in the device which controls that specific device. OS provides functionality over and above that which is provided by the firmware. Firmware is programs that been encoded by the manufacture of the IC or something and cannot be changed. OS is a program that can be installed by the user and can be changed. It is stored on non-volatile memory. OS is stored on the hard drive. Difference between 32-Bit vs. 64 Bit Operating System Parameters 32. Bit 64. Bit Architecture and Software Allow 32 bit of data processing simultaneously Allow 64 bit of data processing simultaneously Compatibility 32-bit applications require 32-bit OS and CPUs. 64-bit applications require a 64-bit OS and CPU. Systems Available All versions of Windows 8, Windows 7, Windows Vista, and Windows XP, Linux, etc. Windows XP Professional, Vista, 7, Mac OS X and Linux. Memory Limits 32-bit systems are limited to 3.2 GB of RAM. 64-bit systems allow a maximum 17 Billion GB of RAM. The advantage of using Operating System Allows you to hide details of hardware by creating an abstraction Easy to use with a GUI Offers an environment in which a user may execute programs/applications The operating system must make sure that the computer system convenient to use Operating System acts as an intermediary among applications and the hardware components It provides the computer system resources with easy to use format Acts as an intermediator between all hardware's and software's of the system Disadvantages of using Operating System If any issue occurs in OS, you may lose all the contents which have been stored in your system Operating system's software is quite expensive for small size organization which adds burden on them. Example Windows It is never entirely secure as a threat can occur at any time Summary An operating system is a software which acts as an interface between the end user and computer hardware Operating systems were first developed in the late 1950s to manage tape storage The kernel is the central component of a computer operating systems. The only job performed by the kernel is to the manage the communication between the software and the hardware Two most popular kernels are Monolithic and MicroKernels Process, Device, File, I/O, Secondary-Storage, Memory management are various functions of an Operating System Batch, Multitasking/Time Sharing, Multiprocessing, Real Time, Distributed, Network, Mobile are various types of Operating Systems   YOU MIGHT LIKE: SDLC What is Full Stack Developer? Skills to become a Web Developer What is a Full Stack developer? FULL STACK DEVELOPER is an engineer who works on both client-side and... Read more BigData 11 Best Big Data Analytics Tools in 2020 Big Data Analytics software is widely used in providing meaningful analysis of a large set of... Read more DevOps Docker Tutorial for Beginners: What is, Architecture, Install, Commands History of Virtualization Earlier, the process for deploying a service was slow and painful.... Read more DevOps Top 43 Docker Interview Questions and Answers Following are frequently asked Docker job interview questions for fresher as well as experienced... Read more Course SAP Successfactors: What is, Architecture, Integration, Benefits What is SAP SuccessFactors? SAP SuccessFactors is a cloud-based HR solution for your organization. This... Read more SDLC Difference between System Software and Application Software What is System Software? System Software is a set of programs that control and manage the... Read more 1) Operating System Tutorial 2) What is Semaphore? 3) Mutex Vs Semaphore 4) Process vs Thread 5) Different Types of RAM 6) RAM Vs ROM 7) Multithreading Vs Multiprocessing 8) Components 9) Microkernel 10) System Call in OS 11) File Systems in OS 12) Real-time operating system (RTOS) 13) Remote Procedure Call (RPC) 14) CPU Scheduling Algorithms 15) Process Management in OS 16) Introduction to DEADLOCK 17) FCFS Scheduling Algorithm 18) Paging in Operating System 19) Livelock 20) Inter Process Communication 21) Round Robin Scheduling Algorithm 22) Process Synchronization 23) Process Scheduling 24) Priority Scheduling Algorithm 25) Memory Management in OS 26) Shortest Job First (SJF) 27) Virtual Memory in OS 28) Banker's Algorithm 29) Microprocessor Vs Microcontroller 30) Paging Vs Segmentation Operating System Tutorial Top Tutorials About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us Career Suggestion SAP Career Suggestion Tool Software Testing as a Career Selenium Testing Hacking Interesting eBook Blog Quiz SAP eBook SAP Java Python Execute online Execute Java Online Execute Javascript Execute HTML Execute Python Jmeter Informatica JIRA © Copyright - Guru99 2020         Privacy Policy  |  Affiliate Disclaimer  |  ToS
