https://www.guru99.com//overview-of-sap-security.html
SAP Security Tutorial for Beginners Home Testing Back Agile Testing BugZilla Cucumber Database Testing ETL Testing Jmeter JIRA Back JUnit LoadRunner Manual Testing Mobile Testing Mantis Postman QTP Back Quality Center (ALM) RPA SAP Testing Selenium SoapUI Test Management TestLink SAP Back ABAP APO Beginner Basis BODS BI BPC CO Back CRM Crystal Reports FICO HANA HR MM QM Payroll Back PI/PO PP SD SAPUI5 Security Solution Manager Successfactors SAP Tutorials Web Back Apache Android AngularJS ASP.Net C C# C++ CodeIgniter DBMS Back Java JavaScript JSP Kotlin Linux MariaDB MS Access MYSQL Node.js Back Perl PHP PL/SQL PostgreSQL Python ReactJS Ruby & Rails Scala SQL Back SQL Server SQLite UML VB.Net VBScript Web Services WPF Must Learn! Back Accounting Algorithms Blockchain Business Analyst Build Website CCNA Cloud Computing COBOL Compiler Design Embedded Systems Back Ethical Hacking Excel Tutorials Go Programming IoT ITIL Jenkins MIS Networking Operating System Prep Back PMP Photoshop Project Management Reviews Salesforce SEO Software Engineering VBA Big Data Back AWS BigData Cassandra Cognos Data Warehousing DevOps HBase Back Hive Informatica MicroStrategy MongoDB NiFi OBIEE Pentaho Back Power BI Qlikview Tableau Talend ZooKeeper Live Projects Back Live Agile Testing Live HP ALM Live Java Project Live Mobile Testing Live Payment Gateway Live PHP Project Live Projects Hub Live Python Project Back Live Selenium Project Live Selenium 2 Live Security Testing Live Testing Project Live Testing 2 Live Telecom Live UFT/QTP Testing AI Back Artificial Intelligence Data Science Keras NLTK Back NumPy PyTorch R Programming TensorFlow Blog SAP Security Tutorial for Beginners Details Last Updated: 25 March 2020 What is SAP Security? SAP Systems contain very sensitive and confidential data of their clientele and businesses. Hence, there is a need for a regular audit of an SAP computer system to check its security and data integrity. For instance, an employee in a warehouse who is responsible for creating a purchase order shall not approve a rightful purchase order or otherwise he may create and approve as many purchase order without any use. In such scenario, the purchase order approval should be controlled by a higher authority which is a standard security feature. Protecting the SAP data and applications from unauthorized use and access is called SAP security. To protect these data’s SAP offers different measures for security check. Security Concepts for SAP STAD Data  Transaction codes are the front door to get the access to SAP’s functionality. STAD data provide security against unauthorized transaction access. Does it keep a record of information like who accessed certain critical functionality? And when? STAD data can be used to monitor, analyze, audit and maintain the security concept. SAP Cryptographic library SAP Cryptographic Library is the default encryption product delivery by SAP. It is used for providing Secure Network Communication (SNC) between various SAP server components. For front-end components, you need to buy an SNC certified partner product. Internet Transaction Server (ITS) Security To make SAP system application available for access from a web browser, a middleware component called Internet Transaction Server (ITS) is used. The ITS architecture has many built-in security features, such as to run the Wgate and Agate on separate hosts.  Network Basics(SAPRouter, Firewalls and DMZ, Network Ports) The basic security tools that SAP uses are Firewalls & DMZ, Network Ports, SAPRouter, etc. A firewall is a system of software and hardware components which define the connections that should pass back and forth between communication partners.SAP Web dispatcher and SAPRouter are examples of application level gateways that you can use for filtering SAP network traffic. Web-AS Security(Load Balancing, SSL, Enterprise Portal Security) SSL (Secure Socket Layer), is a standard security technology for establishing an encrypted link between a server and client.  With SSL you can authenticate the communication partners(server & client), by determining the variables of the encryption. With sap cyber security, both partners are authenticated. The data transferred between the server and client will be protected so any manipulation in the data will be detected. In addition to that data transferred between the client and server is also encrypted. Enterprise portal security guide can be helpful to secure the system by following their guidelines. Single Sign-On The SAP single sign-on function enables you to configure same user credentials to access multiple SAP systems.  It helps to reduce administrative costs and security risk associated with maintaining multiple user credentials.  It ensures confidentiality through encryption during data transmission. AIS(Audit Information System) AIS or Audit Information System is an auditing tool that you can use to analyze security aspects of your SAP system in detail. AIS is designed for business audits and systems audits. AI presents its information in the Audit InfoStructure. SAP Security for Mobile SAP Apps SAP applications are now available on mobile with an increase in the mobile users. But this exposure is a potential threat. The biggest threat for an SAP app is the risk of an employee losing important data of customers. The good thing about mobile SAP is that most mobile devices are enabled with remote wipe capabilities.  And many of the CRM- related functions that organizations are looking to mobilize are cloud-based, which means the confidential data does not reside on the device itself. Some of the popular mobile SAP security providers are SAP Afaria, SAP Netweaver Gateway, SAP Mobile Academy and SAP Hana cloud. SAP Security Best Practices Checklist Network settings and landscape architecture assessment OS security assessment where SAP is deployed DBMS security assessment. SAP NetWeaver security assessment Internal assessment of access control Assessment of SAP components like SAP Gateway, SAP Messenger Server, SAP Portal, SAP Router, SAP GUI Change and transport procedure assessment Assessment of compliance with SAP, ISACA, DSAG, OWASP standards   Guru99 is Sponsored by Acunetix Acunetix, the developers of dead-accurate web application security scanners have sponsored the Guru99 project to help scan for over 4500 web vulnerabilities accurately and at top speed. Visit the Acunetix Website SAP Security 1) SAP Security Tutorial 2) SAP Security Interview Q & A Top Tutorials About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us Career Suggestion SAP Career Suggestion Tool Software Testing as a Career Selenium Testing Hacking Interesting eBook Blog Quiz SAP eBook SAP Java Python Execute online Execute Java Online Execute Javascript Execute HTML Execute Python Jmeter Informatica JIRA © Copyright - Guru99 2020         Privacy Policy  |  Affiliate Disclaimer  |  ToS
