https://www.guru99.com//scala-vs-java.html
Java vs Scala: What is the Difference? Home Testing Back Agile Testing BugZilla Cucumber Database Testing ETL Testing Jmeter JIRA Back JUnit LoadRunner Manual Testing Mobile Testing Mantis Postman QTP Back Quality Center (ALM) RPA SAP Testing Selenium SoapUI Test Management TestLink SAP Back ABAP APO Beginner Basis BODS BI BPC CO Back CRM Crystal Reports FICO HANA HR MM QM Payroll Back PI/PO PP SD SAPUI5 Security Solution Manager Successfactors SAP Tutorials Web Back Apache Android AngularJS ASP.Net C C# C++ CodeIgniter DBMS Back Java JavaScript JSP Kotlin Linux MariaDB MS Access MYSQL Node.js Back Perl PHP PL/SQL PostgreSQL Python ReactJS Ruby & Rails Scala SQL Back SQL Server SQLite UML VB.Net VBScript Web Services WPF Must Learn! Back Accounting Algorithms Blockchain Business Analyst Build Website CCNA Cloud Computing COBOL Compiler Design Embedded Systems Back Ethical Hacking Excel Tutorials Go Programming IoT ITIL Jenkins MIS Networking Operating System Prep Back PMP Photoshop Project Management Reviews Salesforce SEO Software Engineering VBA Big Data Back AWS BigData Cassandra Cognos Data Warehousing DevOps HBase Back Hive Informatica MicroStrategy MongoDB NiFi OBIEE Pentaho Back Power BI Qlikview Tableau Talend ZooKeeper Live Projects Back Live Agile Testing Live HP ALM Live Java Project Live Mobile Testing Live Payment Gateway Live PHP Project Live Projects Hub Live Python Project Back Live Selenium Project Live Selenium 2 Live Security Testing Live Testing Project Live Testing 2 Live Telecom Live UFT/QTP Testing AI Back Artificial Intelligence Data Science Keras NLTK Back NumPy PyTorch R Programming TensorFlow Blog Java vs Scala: What is the Difference? Details Last Updated: 25 March 2020 What is Java? Java is a multi-platform, object-oriented, network-centric, programming language developed by Sun Microsystems. Java is a programming language and a computing platform for application development. It was first released by Sun Microsystem in 1995 and later acquired by Oracle Corporation In this tutorial, you will learn: What is Java? What is Scala? Features of Java Features of Scala Java vs. Scala Advantage of using Scala Advantages of Java Disadvantages of Java Disadvantages of Scala What is Scala? Scala is a statically typed programming language which incorporates functional and object-oriented programming. It primarily targets the JVM (Java Virtual Machine) platform but can also be used to write software for multiple platforms. It includes native platforms using Scala-Native and JavaScript runtimes through Scala. Features of Java Here are the important features of Java. Write code once and run it on almost any computer platform It is designed for building object-oriented applications. Very Robust and Highly Secure It is a multithreaded language with automatic memory management Facilitates distributed computing as its network centric Features of Scala Here are important features of scala: Object-oriented but Scala is also a functional language. It is concise, powerful language and can quickly grow according to the demand of its users. Allows you to execute Java code Scala is statically typed Java vs. Scala Here are the main difference between Java and Scala. Parameter Scala Java Compactness More compact and concise Comparatively larger chunks of code Designed for It is designed and developed to be both object and functional oriented language. It supports a wide variety of functional programming features such as concurrency and Immutability. Originally developed as an object-oriented language and started supporting functional programming features in recent days. It is not as strong as a functional programming language. Concurrency model Uses actor model for supporting modern concurrency It uses the conventional thread-based model for concurrency. Supported frameworks Supports frameworks – Play, Lift Supports Spring, Grails, much more Lazy evaluation support Supports lazy evaluation Does not support lazy evaluation Static members No static members Contains static members Operator overloading Supports operator overloading Does not support operator overloading Compilation process Compilation of source code is comparatively slow Compilation of source code is faster than Scala Interfaces Traits – act like Java 8 interfaces Java 8 interfaces try to bridge the gap between classes and interfaces URL rewriting Rewriting is needed Rewriting is not required Bug-free codes No assurance about the bug-free codes Complete assurance of lesser defects Support for backward compatibility Scala does not support backward compatibility Java supports backward compatibility Support for Multiple inheritances Supports multiple inheritances using classes but not by abstract classes Does not support multiple inheritances using classes, but by interfaces Code style Code is written in a compact form. Code is written in long-form. Static keyword Scala does not contain the static keyword. Java contains the static keyword. Treats Any method or function present in Scala is they are treated like they are variable. Java treats functions as an object. Type of variables Scala variables are by default immutable type. Java variables are by default mutable type. Object orientation Scala treats everything as an instance of the class and it is more object-oriented language as compare to Java. Java does not support operator overloading. Calling method In Scala, all the operations on entities performed using method calls. Operators are treated differently and is not done using the call method. Readability Scala is less readable because of its nested code. Java is more readable. Compiling process Compiling the process of source code into byte code is very slow. Compiling the process of source code into byte code is fast. Advantages of Java Here, are pros/benefits of using Java- Detailed documentation is available. A large pool of skilled developers available Allows you to form standard programs and reusable code. It is a multi-threaded environment which allows you to perform many tasks at the same time in a program. Excellent performance Huge array of 3rd party libraries Easy to navigate libraries Advantage of using Scala Here are pros/benefits of learning Scala: Scala is easy to learn for object-oriented programmers, (Java developers). It is becoming one of the popular languages in recent years. Scala offers first-class functions for users Scala can be executed on JVM, thus paving the way for the interoperability with other languages. It is designed for applications that are concurrent, distributed, resilient, and message driven. It is one of the most demanding languages of this decade. It is concise, powerful language and can quickly grow according to the demand of its users. It is object-oriented and has a lot of functional programming features providing a lot of flexibility to the developers to code in a way they want. Scala offers many Duck Types It has less boilerplate if you are coming from Java The frameworks Lift and Play written in Scala are in the growth curve. Disadvantages of Java Here, are cons/drawback of using Java- JIT compiler makes the program comparatively slow. Java has high memory and processing requirements. Therefore, hardware cost increases. No support for low-level programming constructs like pointers. You don't have any control over garbage collection as Java does not provide functions like delete(), free(). Disadvantages of Scala Here, are few cons/disadvantages of scala: Scala offers very limited community presence. It is not the easily adaptable language. Offers very limited backward compatibility KEY DIFFERENCE Scala is a statically typed programming language whereas Java is a multi-platform, network-centric, programming language. Scala uses an actor model for supporting modern concurrency whereas Java uses the conventional thread-based model for concurrency. Scala variables are by default immutable type while Java variables are by default mutable type. Scala supports lazy evaluation while Java doesn’t support lazy evaluation. Scala doesn’t contain static members whereas Java contains static members. Scala supports operator overloading whereas Java doesn’t support operator overloading. Scala doesn’t offer backward compatibility whereas Java offers backward compatibility. Scala is less readable because of nested code whereas Java is more readable. Scala frameworks are Play, Lift whereas Java frameworks are Spring, Grails, and many more.   Prev Report a Bug Next YOU MIGHT LIKE: Java Tutorials C++ Vs JAVA: What’s the Difference? What is the C++ language? C++ is a computer programming language that contains the feature of C... Read more Java Tutorials String endsWith() Method in Java with Example What is String "endsWith" Method? The Java endsWith method is used to check whether the string is... Read more Java Tutorials Palindrome Program in Java: Check number is Palindrome or Not What is Palindrome Number? A Palindrome Number is a number that even when reversed is same as... Read more Java Tutorials String compareTo() Method in Java with Example What is compareTo() method in Java? compareTo() is used for comparing two strings... Read more Java Tutorials Java vs C# - 10 Key Differences between Java and C# What is Java? Java was released by Sun Microsystem in 1995. It was developed by James Gosling. It is a... Read more Java Tutorials Top 100 Java Interview Questions with Answers Q1. What is the difference between an Inner Class and a Sub-Class? Ans: An Inner class is a class... Read more 1) Java Platform 2) Java Virtual Machine 3) How to install java 4) Download & Install Java in Linux 5) First Java Program 6) Concept of OOPs 7) Data Abstraction 8) Encapsulation 9) Java Variables 10) Class & Objects 11) Java Arrays 12) Array of Objects 13) ArrayList in Java 14) Java Strings 15) String Length() Method 16) String indexOf() Method 17) String charAt() Method 18) String compareTo() Method 19) String contains() Method 20) String endsWith() Method 21) Java String replace() 22) toLowercase() & toUpperCase() 23) Convert a Java String to Integer 24) HashMaps in Java 25) Command-line 26) This Keyword 27) Garbage Collection 28) Static Variables 29) Stack Heap 30) Inheritance 31) Polymorphism 32) Abstract Method & Class 33) Java Interface 34) Interface vs Abstract Class 35) Java Constructors 36) Java Packages 37) Exception Handling 38) User-defined 39) Throws 40) Trick with For Loop 41) Switch in Java 42) Maths with Java 43) Generate Random Number 44) Date in Java 45) Multithreading in Java 46) Java GUI – Swing 47) Split a String 48) Buffered Reader 49) Java Reflection API Tutorials 50) Check Prime Number 51) Convert JSON to XML using Gson and JAXB 52) Prime Number From 1 to 100 53) Convert Char to String 54) Fibonacci Series 55) Check Armstrong Number 56) Reverse String using Recursion 57) Check Palindrome Number 58) Bubble Sort Program 59) Insertion Sort Algorithm 60) Selection Sorting 61) Java Tools for Developers 62) Groovy Script Tutorial 63) Java Spring Tutorial 64) Apache ANT Tutorial 65) JasperReports Tutorial 66) C++ Vs JAVA 67) JDK Vs JRE Vs JVM 68) Java Vs C# 69) Java Vs Python 70) Java Vs Scala 71) Java Interview Q & A 72) Java Design Patterns Interview Q & A 73) JMS Interview Q & A 74) Groovy Interview Q & A 75) JAVA Programming PDF Java Tutorials Top Tutorials About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us Career Suggestion SAP Career Suggestion Tool Software Testing as a Career Selenium Testing Hacking Interesting eBook Blog Quiz SAP eBook SAP Java Python Execute online Execute Java Online Execute Javascript Execute HTML Execute Python Jmeter Informatica JIRA © Copyright - Guru99 2020         Privacy Policy  |  Affiliate Disclaimer  |  ToS
