https://www.guru99.com//cpp-vs-java.html
C++ Vs JAVA: What’s the Difference? Home Testing Back Agile Testing BugZilla Cucumber Database Testing ETL Testing Jmeter JIRA Back JUnit LoadRunner Manual Testing Mobile Testing Mantis Postman QTP Back Quality Center (ALM) RPA SAP Testing Selenium SoapUI Test Management TestLink SAP Back ABAP APO Beginner Basis BODS BI BPC CO Back CRM Crystal Reports FICO HANA HR MM QM Payroll Back PI/PO PP SD SAPUI5 Security Solution Manager Successfactors SAP Tutorials Web Back Apache Android AngularJS ASP.Net C C# C++ CodeIgniter DBMS Back Java JavaScript JSP Kotlin Linux MariaDB MS Access MYSQL Node.js Back Perl PHP PL/SQL PostgreSQL Python ReactJS Ruby & Rails Scala SQL Back SQL Server SQLite UML VB.Net VBScript Web Services WPF Must Learn! Back Accounting Algorithms Blockchain Business Analyst Build Website CCNA Cloud Computing COBOL Compiler Design Embedded Systems Back Ethical Hacking Excel Tutorials Go Programming IoT ITIL Jenkins MIS Networking Operating System Prep Back PMP Photoshop Project Management Reviews Salesforce SEO Software Engineering VBA Big Data Back AWS BigData Cassandra Cognos Data Warehousing DevOps HBase Back Hive Informatica MicroStrategy MongoDB NiFi OBIEE Pentaho Back Power BI Qlikview Tableau Talend ZooKeeper Live Projects Back Live Agile Testing Live HP ALM Live Java Project Live Mobile Testing Live Payment Gateway Live PHP Project Live Projects Hub Live Python Project Back Live Selenium Project Live Selenium 2 Live Security Testing Live Testing Project Live Testing 2 Live Telecom Live UFT/QTP Testing AI Back Artificial Intelligence Data Science Keras NLTK Back NumPy PyTorch R Programming TensorFlow Blog C++ Vs JAVA: What’s the Difference? Details Last Updated: 25 March 2020 What is the C++ language? C++ is a computer programming language that contains the feature of C programming language as well as Simula67 (first object Oriented language). C++ introduced the concept of Class and Objects. It encapsulates high and low-level language features. So, it is seen as an intermediate level language. Earlier it was called "C with classes" as it had all the properties of the C language. What is the Java language? Java is programming language developed by Sun Microsystems. A small software development team developed this language. They were known as the Green Team, who initiated Java language in the year 1991. History of C++ C++ language was developed by Bjarne Stroustrup at AT & T Bell Laboratories. Stroustrup was a strong supporter of C and an admirer of Simula67. He wanted to combine the best of both the languages. He was aiming to create a language which supports object-oriented programming features and still retains the power of C. This resulted in C++. History of Java The Java language was initially called OAK. Originally, it was developed for handling devices and set-top boxes. Oak was a massive failure. Thus, in 1995 Sun changed the name to Java and modified the language to take advantage of the burgeoning World Wide Web development business. Later, in 2009, Oracle Corporation acquired Sun Microsystems and took ownership of two key Sun software assets: Java and Solaris. C++ Vs Java Difference Between C++ and Java Parameter C++ Java Relationship No strict relationship between class names and filenames. In C++, header files and implementation files are used for specific class. The strict relationship is enforced, e.g., the source code for class PayRoll has to be in PayRoll.java. Input mechanism I/O statements use in and cout, e.g., in » x; cout« y; I/O input mechanism is a quite complex as it reads one byte at a time (System.in). Output is easy, e.g. System.out.println(x); Compiler and Interpreter C++ only support compiler Java supports both compiler and interpreter Compatibility with other languages Compatible with C source code, except some exceptional cases. No backward compatibility with any previous language. The syntax is influenced by C/C++. Access control and object protection Flexible model with constant protection available The cumbersome model encourages weak encapsulation. Concept Write once compile anywhere Write once run anywhere everywhere Support for programming type Allows both procedural programming and object-oriented programming. Support object-oriented programming model. Interface Allows direct calls to native system libraries. Only call through the Java Native Interface and recently Java Native Access Memory management Accessible to programmer System controlled Root hierarchy C++ there is no such root hierarchy. C++ supports both procedural and object-oriented programming; therefore, it is called a hybrid language. Java is a pure object-oriented Programming language. That's. Why It follows single root hierarchy. Best features C++ supports Object-oriented features Procedural programming features. Java support automatic garbage collection. It does not support destructors as C++ does. Goto Statement C++ has a goto statement. Although, it is not ideal to a use a goto statement. Java has no goto statement. The keywords got, and const are reserved even if they are not used. Multiple inheritance C++ provide multipleInheritance. The keyword virtual is used to resolveproblems during multipleinheritance if there is any. Java doesn't provide multiple inheritance. Scope resolution operator C++ has scope resolution operator (: :) which is used to define a method outside of a class and to access a global variable within from the scope where a local variable also exists with the same name. No scope resolution operator (: :) in Java. The method definitions have to occur within a class, so there is no need for scope resolution. Supporting method C++ supports both method overloading & operator overloading Java only supports method overloading. It does not provide support for operator overloading. Portability The source must be recompiled for the platform; hence the code is not portable. Bytecode classes are transferrable to platform-specific JVM's. Type semantics Consistent between primitive and object types. Differ for primitive and object types. Libraries Predominantly low-level functionality Massive, classes for high-level services. Runtime error detection Programmer responsibility. System Responsibility. Functions & Data Functions and data may exist external to any class, global and namespace scopes are available. All function and data exist within classes; package scope are available. Platform C++ programs are platform dependent. They need to be compiled for a particular platform. Java programs are platform independent. Java programs are written for Java Virtual Machine (JVM). It will run without needing recompilation. Runtime error detection In C++, It is Programmer responsibility to check the errors. It is system responsibility to check error in the program. Pointer C++ support pointers. Java offers only limited support for pointers. Structure It supports structures. It does not any support for structures. Unions C++ supports unions. Java does not support unions. Object management C++ supports manual object management with the help of new and delete keywords. Java is heavy depend on automatic garbage collection. It does not support destructors. KEY DIFFERENCE: C++ uses only compiler, whereas Java uses compiler and interpreter both. C++ supports both operator overloading & method overloading whereas Java only supports method overloading. C++ supports manual object management with the help of new and delete keywords whereas Java has built-in automatic garbage collection. C++ supports structures whereas Java doesn’t supports structures. C++ supports unions while Java doesn’t support unions.   Prev Report a Bug Next YOU MIGHT LIKE: Java Tutorials Fibonacci Series Program in Java using Loops & Recursion What is Fibonacci Series? In Fibonacci series, next number is the sum of previous two numbers. The... Read more JavaScript QuickSort Algorithm in JavaScript What is Quick Sort? Quick Sort algorithm follows Divide and Conquer approach. It divides elements... Read more Java Tutorials Top 22 Groovy Interview Questions & Answers 1) Explain what is Groovy? Groovy is an object-oriented programming language for JVM (Java Virtual... Read more Java Tutorials Java String toLowercase() and toUpperCase() Methods 1. tolowercase() method This Java string method converts every character of the particular string... Read more Java Tutorials 20 Best Java Tools for Developers in 2020 There are many tools available for Java management. These software ease the entire process of... Read more Java Tutorials JDK vs JRE vs JVM: Key Differences What is JDK? JDK is a software development environment used for making applets and Java... Read more 1) Java Platform 2) Java Virtual Machine 3) How to install java 4) Download & Install Java in Linux 5) First Java Program 6) Concept of OOPs 7) Data Abstraction 8) Encapsulation 9) Java Variables 10) Class & Objects 11) Java Arrays 12) Array of Objects 13) ArrayList in Java 14) Java Strings 15) String Length() Method 16) String indexOf() Method 17) String charAt() Method 18) String compareTo() Method 19) String contains() Method 20) String endsWith() Method 21) Java String replace() 22) toLowercase() & toUpperCase() 23) Convert a Java String to Integer 24) HashMaps in Java 25) Command-line 26) This Keyword 27) Garbage Collection 28) Static Variables 29) Stack Heap 30) Inheritance 31) Polymorphism 32) Abstract Method & Class 33) Java Interface 34) Interface vs Abstract Class 35) Java Constructors 36) Java Packages 37) Exception Handling 38) User-defined 39) Throws 40) Trick with For Loop 41) Switch in Java 42) Maths with Java 43) Generate Random Number 44) Date in Java 45) Multithreading in Java 46) Java GUI – Swing 47) Split a String 48) Buffered Reader 49) Java Reflection API Tutorials 50) Check Prime Number 51) Convert JSON to XML using Gson and JAXB 52) Prime Number From 1 to 100 53) Convert Char to String 54) Fibonacci Series 55) Check Armstrong Number 56) Reverse String using Recursion 57) Check Palindrome Number 58) Bubble Sort Program 59) Insertion Sort Algorithm 60) Selection Sorting 61) Java Tools for Developers 62) Groovy Script Tutorial 63) Java Spring Tutorial 64) Apache ANT Tutorial 65) JasperReports Tutorial 66) C++ Vs JAVA 67) JDK Vs JRE Vs JVM 68) Java Vs C# 69) Java Vs Python 70) Java Vs Scala 71) Java Interview Q & A 72) Java Design Patterns Interview Q & A 73) JMS Interview Q & A 74) Groovy Interview Q & A 75) JAVA Programming PDF Java Tutorials Top Tutorials About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us Career Suggestion SAP Career Suggestion Tool Software Testing as a Career Selenium Testing Hacking Interesting eBook Blog Quiz SAP eBook SAP Java Python Execute online Execute Java Online Execute Javascript Execute HTML Execute Python Jmeter Informatica JIRA © Copyright - Guru99 2020         Privacy Policy  |  Affiliate Disclaimer  |  ToS
