https://www.guru99.com//node-js-tutorial.html
Node.js Tutorial: Learn in 3 Days Home Testing Back Agile Testing BugZilla Cucumber Database Testing ETL Testing Jmeter JIRA Back JUnit LoadRunner Manual Testing Mobile Testing Mantis Postman QTP Back Quality Center (ALM) RPA SAP Testing Selenium SoapUI Test Management TestLink SAP Back ABAP APO Beginner Basis BODS BI BPC CO Back CRM Crystal Reports FICO HANA HR MM QM Payroll Back PI/PO PP SD SAPUI5 Security Solution Manager Successfactors SAP Tutorials Web Back Apache Android AngularJS ASP.Net C C# C++ CodeIgniter DBMS Back Java JavaScript JSP Kotlin Linux MariaDB MS Access MYSQL Node.js Back Perl PHP PL/SQL PostgreSQL Python ReactJS Ruby & Rails Scala SQL Back SQL Server SQLite UML VB.Net VBScript Web Services WPF Must Learn! Back Accounting Algorithms Blockchain Business Analyst Build Website CCNA Cloud Computing COBOL Compiler Design Embedded Systems Back Ethical Hacking Excel Tutorials Go Programming IoT ITIL Jenkins MIS Networking Operating System Prep Back PMP Photoshop Project Management Reviews Salesforce SEO Software Engineering VBA Big Data Back AWS BigData Cassandra Cognos Data Warehousing DevOps HBase Back Hive Informatica MicroStrategy MongoDB NiFi OBIEE Pentaho Back Power BI Qlikview Tableau Talend ZooKeeper Live Projects Back Live Agile Testing Live HP ALM Live Java Project Live Mobile Testing Live Payment Gateway Live PHP Project Live Projects Hub Live Python Project Back Live Selenium Project Live Selenium 2 Live Security Testing Live Testing Project Live Testing 2 Live Telecom Live UFT/QTP Testing AI Back Artificial Intelligence Data Science Keras NLTK Back NumPy PyTorch R Programming TensorFlow Blog Node.js Tutorial: Learn in 3 Days Details Last Updated: 16 March 2020 Introduction to Node.js The modern web application has really come a long way over the years with the introduction of many popular frameworks such as bootstrap, Angular JS, etc. All of these frameworks are based on the popular JavaScript framework. But when it came to developing server-based applications, there was a kind of void, and this is where Node.js came into the picture. Node.js is also based on the JavaScript framework, but it is used for developing server-based applications. While going through the entire tutorial, we will look into Node.js in detail and how we can use it to develop server-based applications. Syllabus Tutorial Download & Install Node.js: Step by Step Guide. Tutorial Node.js Modules: Create, Publish, Extend & Manage Tutorial Node.js Http Tutorial: Create Server and Get Data Tutorial Node.js Express Tutorial Tutorial Node.js MongoDB Tutorial Tutorial Node.js Promise Tutorial Tutorial Bluebird Promises Tutorial Tutorial Node.js Generators & Compare with Callbacks Tutorial Node js Streams Tutorial: Filestream, Pipes Tutorial Node.js Testing with Jasmine Tutorial What is GraphQL? Tutorial with Example Tutorial Node.Js Vs. AngularJS: Know the Difference Tutorial Node.js Vs. Python: What's the Difference? Tutorial Top 25 Node.js Interview Questions & Answers Tutorial Node.js Tutorial PDF What is Node.js? Node.js is an open-source, cross-platform runtime environment used for the development of server-side web applications. Node.js applications are written in JavaScript and can be run on a wide variety of operating systems. Node.js is based on an event-driven architecture and a non-blocking Input/Output API that is designed to optimize an application's throughput and scalability for real-time web applications. Over a long period of time, the framework available for web development were all based on a stateless model. A stateless model is where the data generated in one session (such as information about user settings and events that occurred) is not maintained for usage in the next session with that user. A lot of work had to be done to maintain the session information between requests for a user. But with Node.js, there is finally a way for web applications to have real-time two-way connections, where both the client and server can initiate communication, allowing them to exchange data freely. Why use Node.js? We will have a look into the real worth of Node.js in the coming chapters, but what is it that makes this framework so famous. Over the years, most of the applications were based on a stateless request-response framework. In these sort of applications, it is up to the developer to ensure the right code was put in place to ensure the state of web session was maintained while the user was working with the system. But with Node.js web applications, you can now work in real-time and have a 2-way communication. The state is maintained, and either the client or server can start the communication. Features of Node.js Let's look at some of the key features of Node.js Asynchronous event-driven IO helps concurrent request handling – This is probably the most significant selling point of Node.js. This feature basically means that if a request is received by Node for some Input/Output operation, it will execute the operation in the background and continue with processing other requests. This is quite different from other programming languages. A simple example of this is given in the code below var fs = require('fs'); 
          fs.readFile("Sample.txt",function(error,data)
          {
                console.log("Reading Data completed");
     }); The above code snippet looks at reading a file called Sample.txt. In other programming languages, the next line of processing would only happen once the entire file is read. But in the case of Node.js the important fraction of code to notice is the declaration of the function ('function(error,data)'). This is known as a callback function. So what happens here is that the file reading operation will start in the background. And other processing can happen simultaneously while the file is being read. Once the file read operation is completed, this anonymous function will be called, and the text "Reading Data completed" will be written to the console log. Node uses the V8 JavaScript Runtime engine, the one which is used by Google Chrome. Node has a wrapper over the JavaScript engine which makes the runtime engine much faster and hence the processing of requests within Node also become faster. Handling of concurrent requests – Another key functionality of Node is the ability to handle concurrent connections with a very minimal overhead on a single process. The Node.js library uses JavaScript – This is another important aspect of development in Node.js. A major part of the development community is already well versed in javascript, and hence, development in Node.js becomes easier for a developer who knows javascript. There is an active and vibrant community for the Node.js framework. Because of the active community, there are always keys updates made available to the framework. This helps to keep the framework always up-to-date with the latest trends in web development. Who uses Node.js Node.js is used by many large companies. Below is a list of a few of them. Paypal – A lot of sites within Paypal have also started the transition onto Node.js. LinkedIn - LinkedIn is using Node.js to power their Mobile Servers, which powers the iPhone, Android, and Mobile Web products. Mozilla has implemented Node.js to support browser APIs which has half a billion installs. eBay hosts their HTTP API service in Node.js When to Use Node.js Node.js is best for usage in streaming or event-based real-time applications like Chat applications Game servers – Fast and high-performance servers that need to processes thousands of requests at a time, then this is an ideal framework. Good forcollaborative environment – This is good for environments which manage documents. In a document management environment, you will have multiple people who post their documents and do constant changes by checking out and checking in documents. So Node.js is good for these environments because the event loop in Node.js can be triggered whenever documents are changed in a document managed environment. Advertisement servers – Again here you could have thousands of request to pull advertisements from the central server and Node.js can be an ideal framework to handle this. Streaming servers – Another ideal scenario to use Node is for multimedia streaming servers wherein clients have request's to pull different multimedia contents from this server. Node.js is good when you need high levels of concurrency but less amount of dedicated CPU time. Best of all, since Node.js is built on javascript, it's best suited when you build client-side applications which are based on the same javascript framework. When to not use Node.js Node.js can be used for a lot of applications with various purposes. The only scenario where it should not be used is where there are long processing times, which is required by the application. Node is structured to be single-threaded. If an application is required to carry out some long-running calculations in the background, it won't be able to process any other requests. As discussed above, Node.js is used best where processing needs less dedicated CPU time.   Next YOU MIGHT LIKE: Node-js Node.js Generators & Compare with Callbacks In this tutorial, we are going to learn about Generators and their differences with Callbacks What... Read more Node-js Node.Js Vs AngularJS: Know the Difference What is Node JS? Node.js is a cross-platform runtime library and environment for running... Read more Node-js Node.js Vs Python: What's the Difference? What is Node.js? Node.js is a server-side platform built on Google Chrome's JavaScript Engine. It uses a... Read more Node-js Node.js Tutorial PDF The modern web application has really come a long way over the years with the introduction of many... Read more Node-js Bluebird Promises Tutorial Bluebird is a fully-featured Promise library for JavaScript. The strongest feature of Bluebird is... Read more Node-js Node js Streams Tutorial: Filestream, Pipes In this tutorial, you will learn Filestream in Node.js Pipes in Node.js Events in Node.js Emitting... Read more 1) Introduction to Node.js 2) Download & Install Node.js 3) Node.js Modules 4) Node.js Http Tutorial 5) Node.js Express 6) Node.js MongoDB 7) Node.js Promise 8) Bluebird Promises 9) Generators & Compare Callbacks 10) Filestream, Pipes 11) Node.js Testing with Jasmine 12) GraphQL Tutorial 13) Node.Js Vs AngularJS 14) Node.js Vs Python 15) Node.js Interview Q & A 16) Node.js Tutorial PDF Node.js Tutorial Top Tutorials About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us Career Suggestion SAP Career Suggestion Tool Software Testing as a Career Selenium Testing Hacking Interesting eBook Blog Quiz SAP eBook SAP Java Python Execute online Execute Java Online Execute Javascript Execute HTML Execute Python Jmeter Informatica JIRA © Copyright - Guru99 2020         Privacy Policy  |  Affiliate Disclaimer  |  ToS
