https://www.guru99.com//mantis-bug-tracker-tutorial.html
MANTIS Bug Tracker Tutorial For Beginners Home Testing Back Agile Testing BugZilla Cucumber Database Testing ETL Testing Jmeter JIRA Back JUnit LoadRunner Manual Testing Mobile Testing Mantis Postman QTP Back Quality Center (ALM) RPA SAP Testing Selenium SoapUI Test Management TestLink SAP Back ABAP APO Beginner Basis BODS BI BPC CO Back CRM Crystal Reports FICO HANA HR MM QM Payroll Back PI/PO PP SD SAPUI5 Security Solution Manager Successfactors SAP Tutorials Web Back Apache Android AngularJS ASP.Net C C# C++ CodeIgniter DBMS Back Java JavaScript JSP Kotlin Linux MariaDB MS Access MYSQL Node.js Back Perl PHP PL/SQL PostgreSQL Python ReactJS Ruby & Rails Scala SQL Back SQL Server SQLite UML VB.Net VBScript Web Services WPF Must Learn! Back Accounting Algorithms Blockchain Business Analyst Build Website CCNA Cloud Computing COBOL Compiler Design Embedded Systems Back Ethical Hacking Excel Tutorials Go Programming IoT ITIL Jenkins MIS Networking Operating System Prep Back PMP Photoshop Project Management Reviews Salesforce SEO Software Engineering VBA Big Data Back AWS BigData Cassandra Cognos Data Warehousing DevOps HBase Back Hive Informatica MicroStrategy MongoDB NiFi OBIEE Pentaho Back Power BI Qlikview Tableau Talend ZooKeeper Live Projects Back Live Agile Testing Live HP ALM Live Java Project Live Mobile Testing Live Payment Gateway Live PHP Project Live Projects Hub Live Python Project Back Live Selenium Project Live Selenium 2 Live Security Testing Live Testing Project Live Testing 2 Live Telecom Live UFT/QTP Testing AI Back Artificial Intelligence Data Science Keras NLTK Back NumPy PyTorch R Programming TensorFlow Blog MANTIS Bug Tracker Tutorial For Beginners Details Last Updated: 13 March 2020 What is Mantis Bug Tracker? MANTIS is an open source bug tracking software that can be used to track software defects for various software projects. You can easily download and install the Mantis for your use. Mantisbt now also provides a hosted version of the software. You can easily customize Mantis to map your software development workflow. Some salient features of Mantis Bt are Email notifications: It sends out emails of updates, comments, resolutions to the concerned stakeholders. Access Control: You can control user access at a project level Customize: You can easily customize Mantis as per your requirements. Mobile Support: Mantis supports iPhone, Android, and Windows Phone Platforms. Plugins: An ever-expanding library of plugins to add custom functionality to Mantis Issue Tracker. In this tutorial, you will learn - How to Report an Issue How to Add a Project How to Create a User How to Create Custom Field How to Report an Issue There is no need to download Mantis, you use the online demo Step 1) Log into Mantis Step 2) Once you login to Mantis your user-name will be displayed on the top of the Mantis main screen and now you can report your issue into the Mantis by clicking on the option "Report Issue" as shown below. Step 3) In the next Screen Enter Bug Category Enter Reproducibility Enter Severity Enter Priority Enter Platform Details Enter Summary of the Bug Report Enter Description Enter Steps to reproduce the error Click Submit Report NOTE: The fields you see in your version of Mantis will defer. Refer our section on Custom Fields for the same. Step 4)After entering all the details in the report window, we will submit a report and soon our report will be displayed on the main window. As show in the screen-shot below, when you click on view issue, the issue will appear on the screen with the id "0017896" also, it shows the status as new and also the date when it was created. The issues in the Mantis Tool are highlighted according to the status of an issue. For example here the issue is in acknowledged status, therefore, highlighted in light orange. For different statuses, different colors are allotted. Step 5) When you click on your issue #id 0017896, it will show the issue in more details like project reporter, its status, date submitted and last updated. Step 6) Apart from these, you can add a file, documents, images to your bug as shown below – Step 7) You can also add comments addressing your issue as shown in the screen-shot below. Step 8) You can click history at top of the Issue Report, to see issue history. This issue history has details like when the issue was created, or when the file was added to the issue or if there is any note added to the issue. Step 9) Once the issue is submitted the developer receives an email. How to Add a Project Step 1) Under Manage Tab, go to Manage Projects Enter Project Name Select Status Enter Description Click Add Project Step 2) Project is created. How to Create a User Step 1) Go to Manage > Manage Users. Click "Create New Account" Step 2) Enter Username Real Name Email Access Level Click Create User Step 3) In the next screen assign user to the desired project. Step 3) Update Email and other Account Preferences as desired  Step 4) Login credentials are sent to the user on him email. How to Create Custom Field Step 1) Go to Manage Custom Fields Enter Field Name Click Button "New Custom Field" Step 2) Select Field Type Enter Field Specific Data Hit Update Custom Field Step 4) Custom Field is created Step 5) Click the Custom Field Again and Link Custom Field to your Project Step 6) In the Report Issue section, the new custom field is reflected Next   Prev Report a Bug YOU MIGHT LIKE: Software Testing What is Embedded Testing in Software Testing? In this tutorial, you will learn What are Embedded systems? What is Embedded Testing? Embedded... Read more Agile Testing Why Bug/Defect Triage is Important in Software Testing What is 'Defect Triage'? Defect triage is a process where each bug is prioritized based on its... Read more Software Testing Test Case vs Test Scenario: What's the Difference? What is the Test Case? A TEST CASE is a set of actions executed to verify a particular feature or... Read more Course Postman Tutorial for Beginners with API Testing Example What is Postman? Postman is a scalable API testing tool that quickly integrates into CI/CD... Read more Software Testing Functional Testing Vs Non-Functional Testing: What’s the Difference? What is Functional Testing? Functional testing is a type of testing which verifies that each... Read more Agile Testing Waterfall Vs. Agile: Must Know Differences What is Waterfall methodology? Waterfall Model methodology which is also known as Liner Sequential Life... Read more Trending Course Top Tutorials About About Us Advertise with Us Write For Us Contact Us Career Suggestion SAP Career Suggestion Tool Software Testing as a Career Selenium Testing Hacking Interesting eBook Blog Quiz SAP eBook SAP Java Python Execute online Execute Java Online Execute Javascript Execute HTML Execute Python Jmeter Informatica JIRA © Copyright - Guru99 2020         Privacy Policy  |  Affiliate Disclaimer  |  ToS
