https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/information/history.html
What's New and What's Old? The History of the Tutorial A browser with JavaScript enabled is required for this page to operate properly. What's and What's Old? The History of the Tutorial The Java Tutorials have been written for JDK 8. Examples and practices described in this page don't take advantage of improvements introduced in later releases and might use technology no longer available. See JDK Release Notes for information about new features, enhancements, and removed or deprecated options for all JDK releases. 19 July 2016 - This release of the tutorial corresponds to the JDK 8u101 release. Two new processing limit properties, entityReplacementLimit and maxXMLNameLimit, have been added to JAXP. See Processing Limits for more information. 3 March 2015 - This release of the tutorial corresponds to the JDK 8u40 release. This release includes a new lesson in the Deployment trail that describes how to use the Java packaging tools to generate self-contained applications. Self-contained applications are Java applications that are bundled with the JRE that is needed to run. These applications are installed on a user's local drive and launched in the same way as native applications. See Deploying Self-Contained Applications for more information. 19 August 2014 - This release of the tutorial corresponds to the JDK 8u20 release. This release includes the following changes: The Medium security level is no longer available in the Java Control Panel. To run applets locally, add them to the exception site list in the Java Control Panel. See Exception Site List for information. A new processing limit property, maxElementDepth, has been added to JAXP. See Processing Limits for more information. Entry-Point attribute is a new attribute for the JAR file manifest. See Enhancing Security with Manifest Attributes for information. 18 March 2014 - This release of the tutorial corresponds to the JDK 8 release. See What's New in JDK 8 for more information about new features in this release, which includes the following: Lambda Expressions enable you to treat functionality as a method argument, or code as data. Lambda expressions let you express instances of single-method interfaces (referred to as functional interfaces) more compactly. Default methods are methods in an interface that have an implementation. They enable new functionality to be added to the interfaces of libraries and ensure binary compatibility with code written for older versions of those interfaces. Aggregate operations enable you to perform functional-style operations on streams of elements, in particular, bulk operations on collections, such as sequential or parallel map-reduce transformations. Date-Time APIs enable you to represent dates and times and manipulate date and time values. They support the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) calendar system as well as other commonly used global calendars. Type annotations can be used in conjunction with pluggable type systems for improved type checking, and repeating annotations enable to apply the same annotation to a declaration or type use. Apart from fixing typos and errors, this update includes also includes the following: The Security trail has been restructured; find security information about applets and Java Web Start applications in the Java Applets lesson. The Permissions JAR file manifest attribute is required regardless of security level setting. See Enhancing Security with Manifest Attributes. The JDBC Basics lesson has been updated so that it is compatible with Java DB 10.10, the latest version that JDK 8 currently supports. This includes adding that DERBY is a valid option for the PARAMETER STYLE procedure element for passing parameters to a stored procedure. See Creating Stored Procedures in Java DB with SQL Scripts or JDBC API. 14 January 2014 - This release of the tutorial corresponds to the JDK 7u51 release. This release includes the following: When signing a JAR file, time stamping the signature is recommended. A warning is shown if the signature is not time stamped. See Signing JAR Files for information. The Type Inference section in the Generics trail has been updated with the section Target Types, which describes how the Java compiler takes advantage of target typing to infer the type parameters of a generic method invocation in JDK 8. You can obtain the names of the formal parameters of any method or constructor in JDK 8 with the method java.lang.reflect.Executable.getParameters. See the section Obtaining Names of Method Parameters. The Interfaces and Inheritance trail has been enhanced with information about Default Methods in JDK 8, which are methods in an interface that have an implementation. In addition, you can define static methods in interfaces. The Collections trail has been updated with new Questions and Exercises for Interfaces and Aggregate Operations in JDK 8. These updates help you focus on some important points when working with lambda expressions, streams, and aggregate operations. 15 October 2013 - This release of the tutorial corresponds to the JDK 7u45 release. This release includes the following: The Collections trail has been updated to recommend the preferred method of traversing collections with JDK 8: obtaining a stream and invoking its aggregate operations. Aggregate operations are often used in conjunction with lambda expressions to make programming more expressive, using less lines of code. The Collection, Set, List, and Map interface pages now contain examples that demonstrate this new language feature. Additional manifest entries are described in Enhancing Security with Manifest Attributes. The launchable examples in the Java Tutorial have been updated to use these new attributes. The JAXP trail has been updated with a new Processing Limits lesson. 10 September 2013 - This release of the tutorial corresponds to the JDK 7u40 release. This release includes the following: We are pleased to announce the release of the new Date-Time trail as part of the early access JDK 8 tutorial updates. The Date-Time APIs, coming in JDK 8, are a result of the work from JSR 310 and provide a comprehensive model for date and time. The new trail covers the classes based on the standard ISO calendar system and includes info on converting date and time values to other calendar systems. There is also a Legacy Date-Time page on migrating from the java.util date classes to the new java.time APIs. You can download an early access release of JDK 8 from java.net. The Aggregate Data Operations lesson has been added to the Collections trail. Aggregate operations, a new feature coming in JDK 8, iterate over collections on your behalf, which enables you to write more concise and efficient code that processes elements stored in collections. Running rich Internet applications (RIAs) through a browser can be risky for users due to the malicious intent of others looking for vulnerabilities through which to access a user's system. Guidelines for Securing Rich Internet Applications, in the Deployment trail, provide suggestions for making your RIAs less vulnerable to attack. A new page, Language Tag Filtering and Lookup, has been added to the Setting the Locale lesson in the Internationalization trail. This page discusses language tags, languages ranges, and language priority lists. It also includes sections about language tag filtering and language tag lookup, with plenty of examples that you can compile and run. The JAXP trail has been updated with a new JAXP 1.5 and New Properties lesson. The download tutorial bundle, and the ebooks, available from the Java SE Tutorial download page, have been updated for this release. 18 June 2013 - The downloadable tutorial bundle has been updated for this release. This release of the tutorial corresponds to the JDK 7u25 release. The JDK 7u25 release introduces new JAR file manifest attributes that are used to defend Rich Internet Applications (RIAs) against unauthorized code repurposing. The Permissions and Codebase attributes are described in Enhancing the Security of the JAR File. The Deploying an Applet and Deploying a Java Web Start Application sections describe how to include these attributes in the manifest. Additional tips for deploying RIAs have been added to Deployment Best Practices and Security in Rich Internet Applications. Information on time stamping the signature of a JAR file has been added to Signing JAR Files. Depending on the security level set in the Java Control Panel, RIAs that have an expired certificate might not be allowed to run. However, if the signature is time stamped and the time stamp shows that the certificate was valid when the RIA was signed, the RIA is allowed to run. 16 April 2013 - The Deployment ebook (both mobi and epub formats) has been updated for this release. This release of the tutorial corresponds to the JDK 7u21 release. The JDK 7u21 release enables users to make more informed decisions before running Rich Internet Applications (RIAs) by prompting users for permission before an RIA is run. The prompt contains information about the certificate used to sign the app and the level of access requested by the app. Depending on the security setting in the Java Control Panel, some apps might be blocked from running. The tutorials were updated to reflect the recommendation that all RIAs be run from signed JAR files. A new page has been added to the Deployment trail on User Acceptance of RIAs. You may also want to refer to the lesson on Signing and Verifying JAR Files. Finally, all Java Web Start examples launched from within the tutorial are now signed and all applets run within the sandbox. As part of the ongoing Project Lambda work for Java SE 8, there is a new page on Method References and includes a new MethodReferencesTest.java example. Another feature coming to Java SE 8 is the ability to invoke methods that use the fork/join framework to sort arrays in parallel. The Arrays and Fork/Join pages have been updated with information on manipulating arrays. 1 March 2013 - This online-only release of the Java Tutorial includes early access information on several upcoming features in the JDK 8 release: Lambda expressions, a result of the work of Project Lambda, are a feature being added to the JDK 8 release of the Java platform. Lambda expressions support programming in a multicore environment by adding closures and related features to the Java language. An early access page on Lambda Expressions is part of this tutorial release. As part of this work, the information on Nested Classes, Anonymous Classes, and Local Classes have been updated and a new page on When to Use Nested Classes, Local Classes, Anonymous Classes, and Lambda Expressions has been added. All of this new material is available online only. The Annotations page has been moved and expanded to be a full Annotations lesson. The new lesson includes information on Java SE 8 features: Type Annotations, which can be used in conjunction with pluggable type systems for improved type checking, and Repeating Annotations. This early access lesson is available online only. The lesson Service Providers for Internationalization includes the new section Installing a Custom Resource Bundle as an Extension, which shows you how to load resource bundles with service provider interfaces (SPIs). These interfaces enable you to create applications that you can extend, through plug-ins or modules, without modifying their original code base. See the new section Creating Extensible Applications for more information. These new pages are currently available online only. 14 June 2012 - This release includes a complete reworking of the Generics lesson. The new lesson has more comprehensive information on programming with generics, including Guidelines for Wildcard Use, Restrictions on Generics, and Wildcard Capture and Helper Methods. This release also includes a new page on Autoboxing and Unboxing. 2 March 2012 - This update heralds the release of the Java Tutorials in two ebook formats: mobi ebook files for Kindle. For best results we recommend viewing on the Kindle Fire or Kindle DX. ePub ebook files for iPad, Nook, and other eReaders that support the ePub format. Each ebook contains a single trail. You can download trails via the link in the "In Book Form" box on the Java Tutorials home page. For best results when viewing preformatted code blocks, adjust the landscape/portrait orientation and font size of your device to enable the maximum possible viewing area. We are pleased to announce that the Preparation for Java Programmer Language Certification lesson has been completely reworked. The objectives for each Java SE 7 certification exam are listed and links are provided to relevant tutorial pages. The Internationalization of Network Resources lesson has been updated. 12 December 2011 - This update coincides with the release of JDK 7 update 2. This release includes the following updates. In the 2D and Internationalization trails, more detailed information about font and text layout concepts have been added. In particular, these trails have new pages about bidirectional text, including Working with Bidirectional Text with the JComponent Class. Using Predefined Formats has been updated to demonstrate new features added to the Currency class for JDK 7. The Java Architecture for XML Binding (JAXB) tutorial (formerly part of the Java EE tutorial) has been migrated to the Java SE tutorial. Links to the JavaFX documentation have been added to various pages in the tutorial. For detailed information about the 7u2 release, see JDK 7 Update 2 Release Notes. 20 July 2011 - This update coincides with the release of JDK 7. Most of the JDK 7 features have already been added to the tutorial. This release includes the new deployment page, Deploying without Codebase. A summary of what has been added for the JDK 7 release: The Project Coin updates have affected several sections in the Java Language and the Essential Classes trails. For a complete list, see the 21 Feb 2011 entry. The File I/O lesson, part of the Essential Classes trail, has been updated to correspond to the new file I/O API. Several sections have been added to the Swing tutorial, including the JLayer component, the Nimbus look and feel, and information on Translucent and Shaped Windows. The Deployment trail has many updated and new lessons, including the following – Deploying Without Codebase, Embedding JNLP File in Applet Tag, Handling Initialization Status With Event Handlers, and Customizing the Loading Experience. The Fork/Join section has been added to the Concurrency lesson. The Internationalization trail has been updated to reflect the updates as a result of the Unicode 6.0 work. For a list of the affected sections, see the 21 Feb 2011 entry. The JDBC Basics lesson of the JDBC trail has been completely reworked and updated. A trail introducing Java API for XML Processing (JAXP) 1.4 technology has been incorporated into the Java Tutorials. You can find detailed information about the JDK 7 release in Java SE 7 Features and Enhancements. 17 March 2011 - This update features: The JLayer component, introduced in Java SE 7, is explained in How to Decorate Components with JLayer. If you only have four minutes, watch a short video that introduces JLayer. As of JDK 7 build 130, the NIO.2 File I/O package has been updated, with new and simplified API. The File I/O (Featuring NIO.2) section has been modified to reflect these changes. Samples that demonstrates how to use RowSet objects have been added to the JDBC trail. Please see Using RowSet Objects for more information. In addition, a sample that shows you how to integrate JDBC with a GUI API, in particular the Swing API, has been added. Please see Using JDBC with GUI API for more information. 21 Feb 2011 - JDK 7 Developer Preview Release This update features: The latest version of the Unicode Standard is Unicode 6.0. The Java tutorial has new coverage for Unicode: Unicode, a lesson in the Internationalization trail. Converting Latin Digits to Other Unicode Digits Unicode Support, a page in the Regular Expressions lesson. As a result of Project Coin, several changes were introduced to the Java language: The Primitive Data Types page has been updated to discuss binary literals and to mention that underscore characters can appear anywhere between digits in a numerical literal. The switch Statement page has been updated to reflect the ability to switch on a String object. The Diamond Operator has been added to generics. See the Type Inference section for more information. Using non-reifiable parameters with varags methods is also new. See Using Non-Reifiable Parameters with Varargs Methods for more information. The ability to catch more than one type of exception with a single exception handler has been added. See The catch Blocks for more information. The try-with-resources statement ensures that a resource (such as a BufferedReader) is closed when the program is finished with it. See The try-with-resources Statement for more information. 18 Oct 2010 - This update features: For several months the Java SE Tutorials were not available as a download. We are happy to report that the very popular bundle is back and available through on the front page through the link under the "Tutorial Resources" box to the right. Do the Java Tutorials seem overwhelming to you? We have added a new Learning Paths page. The new Fork/Join page, part of the Concurrency lesson, describes how you can use the Fork/Join framework to take advantage of multiple processors. This feature is available now in the Java SE 7 release available on java.net. The JDBC Basics lesson has been completely revamped, including updated sample code that you can download, compile, and run – the code has been configured for Java DB and MySQL. See Getting Started for more information. Finally, a small, but notable, change is that the standalone JNDI tutorial, previously available on java.sun.com, has been moved to the Java SE documentation archive on docs.oracle.com and many broken links in the tutorial have been fixed. The front page of the JNDI tutorial has been modified accordingly, and redirects are in place ensuring a seamless transition. 7 July 2010 - This tutorial update represents the first release under its new home at docs.oracle.com. Redirects are in place, so any attempt to access the tutorials at java.sun.com/docs/books/tutorial will be redirected to the new location. We hope this will be a seamless transition for our many tutorial readers, but please let us know if you encounter any problems. Also included in this release: Customizing the Loading Experience explains how to provide a customized loading progress indicator for a rich Internet application, a feature first introduced in the JDK 6 Update 18 release and enhanced in the Java SE 6 Update 21 release. A new trail introducing Java API for XML Processing (JAXP) 1.4 technology. (This was previously released on java.sun.com/webservices/references.) 12 January 2010 - This update features: Developing Draggable Applets – a new topic describing how to create an applet that can be dragged outside of a browser and dynamically converted into a Java Web Start application. Sending Messages to Other Applets has been rewritten. Previously, a number of the Swing examples, which are distributed as NetBeans projects, were missing a tag that prevented them from being opened in NetBeans 6.5 or later. The missing tag has been added to all project.xml files. Various minor errors, typos, and broken links have been fixed. 23 September 2009 - This update features: A Deployment tutorial that covers a wide range of topics about the development and deployment of rich Internet applications. The Deployment tutorial contains the following lessons: Applets Java Web Start Doing More With Rich Internet Applications Deployment In-Depth A new section in the Swing look and feel lesson showing how to use the new Nimbus look and feel. A new Swing page describing How to Create Translucent and Shaped Windows. A new Interfaces and Inheritance page discussing Polymorphism. As always, we have fixed numerous bugs, typos and broken links. 27 May 2009 - This update features: An entirely reworked File I/O lesson, featuring NIO.2. This functionality is part of JDK 7. A new facility for gathering feedback about the tutorial. At the bottom of each content page, you can leave a publicly viewable comment. Leaving a comment using the JS-Kit mechanism is similar to leaving a blog comment. Let us know what you think! A new specialized trail covering Sockets Direct Protocol, also new in JDK7. Fixed typos and broken links. 14 March 2008 - This update features: The Drag and Drop lesson has been completely rewritten and updated to JDK 6. An updated Copyright page. A new License page that allows our users to modify tutorial content for limited non-commercial purposes. We are moving our downloads to the Sun Download Center. You are required to accept the license in order to download the Java Tutorials. We are retiring the feature where we name the releases and will be using dates from now on. Besides the work listed here, there are many fixed broken links, typos and other miscellaneous errata. Antediluvian Chili Pepper Day*, 1 August 2007 - This push completes the tutorial update to JDK 6, with the exception of the Swing drag and drop lesson, which is marked as such. There are many updated pages, but the more notable changes are: Performing Custom Painting, a new lesson. How to Print Text, a new page. Laying Out Components Within a Container, an updated lesson. How to Use Icons, with an updated demo by reader Collin Fagan. *OK, we made this up, or rather Collin did. :-) National Honesty Day, 30 April 2007 - This update focuses on the Swing tutorial - we have updated 80% of the material in the Swing tutorial to the JDK 6 release. A significant part of this effort makes our examples easier than ever to use! The Swing examples are now packaged ready to use in NetBeans IDE. Check out the examples index for any of the Swing lessons (this link takes you to the Components lesson, there is a separate index for each Swing lesson) and you can download a zip file for any demo. Or you can visit the Check out the Running Tutorial Examples in NetBeans IDE page for more information on how to use the examples with NetBeans. Visit the NetBeans IDE download page to obtain release 5.5 of NetBeans IDE (it's free). Some of our brand new and significantly updated sections include: Learning Swing with NetBeans IDE, a new lesson! The Synth Look and Feel How to Integrate with the Desktop Class How to Use Modality in Dialogs How to Print Tables How to Create a Splash Screen How to Use the System Tray How to Use Tables Area Code Day, 10 November 2006 - Check out the new Java Tutorials' Blog! The Java™ Tutorial (4th edition) is now available in print. This update of the tutorial includes an Errata page for the first printing. Our publisher, Addison Wesley, informs us that several translations of this book are already in progress. For this update, all of the specialized trails, except for Reflection, have been updated to release 6. The newly updated sections include: Internationalization JavaBeans JDBC Database Access RMI Security Sound 2D Graphics Plus, there are two all-new specialized trails: Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI) Java Management Extensions (JMX) Also, the update of the Swing trail to release 6 is in progress and includes these sections: Swing Concurrency is a new lesson that replaces the old "How to Use Threads" section. It covers the new class javax.swing.SwingWorker. How to Use Tabbed Panes Modifying the Look and Feel is a new lesson that includes the previous How to Set the Look and Feel page. Note that this section is still in progress. The new look and feel of the tutorial has been further refined. Many of you have sent us feedback and we have been listening. The TOC on the left-side of the page can now be toggled. See the "Hide the TOC" button in the banner at the top of the page. Also, there is a new Compiling and Running the Examples FAQ available at the bottom of most every page in the tutorial. National Watermelon Day, 3 August 2006 - The core tutorial is now updated to release JDK 6. This is in preparation for a new printed edition of The Java™ Tutorial (4th edition) that you can pre-order on Amazon or through many other booksellers. This online update includes the following sections: Getting Started (with a new NetBeans section) Object-Oriented Programming Concepts Language Basics Classes and Objects Interfaces and Inheritance Numbers and Strings Generics Packages Exceptions Basic I/O Concurrency Regular Expressions The Platform Environment Swing, a new trail that shows the many capabilities of Swing and features a sophisticated PasswordStore demo by Swing engineer, Scott Violet (source included) Deployment Preparation for Java Programming Language Certification The following update is also complete, though not part of the published tutorial: Custom Networking The Extension Mechanism All examples in the basic tutorial and in the Swing tutorial have been updated to compile against the 6.0 release. Applets and Java web start applications require 6.0 to run. (The one exception are the applets in the deployment/applet section that will run under 1.4 and 1.5.) You may notice that some very old parts of the tutorial have been removed. The previous version of the tutorial is now available via download. See the download page. Finally, the tutorial itself has gotten a facelift, with a new look and feel. Let us know what you think about these changes and please let us know if you find any problems. Send feedback via our feedback form. Nutcracker Release, 23 December 2005 - The Java Tutorial update to JDK 5.0 is now complete. This includes these sections of the tutorial: Getting Started Object-Oriented Programming Concepts Language Basics Objects Basics and Simple Data Objects Classes and Inheritance Interfaces and Packages Handling Errors Using Exceptions Threads: Doing Two or More Tasks at Once Collections I/O Deployment, a new trail that includes: Applets Java Web Start Packaging Programs in JAR Files Other changes include: Several of the very old, out-of-date sections have been archived and are now available via download. See the download page for a complete list of available bundles. You'll notice that the old applet and JAR sections have been updated and moved to the new Deployment trail. You may notice redirects if you have absolute links to the old pages. We fixed the broken search feature: it wasn't limiting its search to the tutorial. This is now working correctly. Across the tutorial, 1.0 and 1.1 examples have been removed. The release 5 examples are located in "ex5" directories. We have a new feedback form. It looks different, but your feedback goes to the same place. Although our workload prevents us from responding to each email, rest assured we do read it. Finally, we fixed the usual broken links, typos, and other errata. Dorothy's Birthday Release, 15 April 2005 - The following sections have been updated to 5.0: Language Basics Classes and Inheritance Object Basics and Simple Data Objects Collections The following sections were updated to 5.0 in our last release, but have since been updated to reflect reader or reviewer feedback: Object-Oriented Programming Concepts Interfaces and Packages Threads: Doing Two or More Tasks At Once Handling Errors with Exceptions Other changes include: At readers' request, we changed the Feedback Form link at the top of each window to bring up a new window so you don't lose the page you're giving feedback about. We started adding ZIP files so you can easily download all the examples for a particular chapter. We added 5.0 versions (including web start links) of the examples in two Swing lessons: Getting Started with Swing and Learning Swing by Example. We moved several applets back to the pages where they're referred to. Please let us know how you feel about this. Another alternative for some of these that aren't truly integrated with their page is to make them web started applications. We made many small changes - which you probably won't notice - to clean up our HTML, reduce code sample line length where necessary, and generally enable better generation of book files from the HTML files. Finally, we fixed the usual broken links, typos, and other errata. Anya's Birthday Release, 14 Feb 2005 - The following sections have been updated to 5.0 (though most are still pending engineering review): Object-Oriented Programming Concepts Interfaces and Packages Handling Errors Using Exceptions Threads: Doing Two or More Tasks at Once JAR Files Other, minor changes that you might notice include: In the chapters where the content hasn't yet been updated, we have updated some of the images. In some cases, this might lead to a mismatch between the text (or code) and the image. We have modified the page headers and the copyright notices. This will cause each page to be updated, even if the content hasn't yet changed. Our search page has been fixed. Thanks to those of you who reported that it was broken. Finally, we fixed the usual broken links, typos, and other errata. Swing Book Release #2, 11 March 2004 - Added an information page for our just-published book, The JFC Swing Tutorial, Second Edition. It includes pointers to other pages describing and book and CD contents, as well as errata. Added questions and exercises, along with answers, to the Swing trail. These reflect the Questions and Exercises section at the end of every non-reference chapter in the new book. Updated the table sorting example to use a much more recent, functional, and robust version of TableSorter. The usual miscellaneous fixes. Swing Book Release, 20 February 2004 - Updated the first two lessons of the Swing trail to 1.4 (with notes about what's expected in 1.5): Getting Started with Swing and Learning Swing by Example. Throughout the tutorial, made the usual fixes to broken links, typos, and other errata. Maya's Birthday Release, 3 November 03 - With the exception of the first two lessons, the Swing trail has now been updated to 1.4 (with notes about what's expected in 1.5) and reflects what will be published in the upcoming book. We'll note the biggest changes here, but with so many changes, we can't mention them all. After consulting with the Swing engineers, we changed our thread safety recommendations and updated all but a few straggling 1.4 Swing examples to be thread safe. The newest recommendation is this: Build the GUI on the event-dispatching thread. See How to Use Threads for details. Updated all pages in the Swing layout and events lessons to 1.4. Updated the accessibility, actions, threads, and timer pages in the Using Other Swing Features lesson to 1.4. In the Using Swing Components lesson, updated the applet, root pane, spinner, split pane, tabbed pane, table, tool bar, tool tip, tree, and all text component pages to 1.4. Created pages for separators and formatted text fields. Completely rewrote the painting lesson. Instead of featuring only the API in the Graphics class, it now simply tells you what's special about painting Swing components and refers you to the 2D trail for details. Throughout the tutorial, made the usual fixes to broken links, typos, and other errata. Victoria Day (Canada), 19 May 03 - Added two completely new and much-requested pages to the Swing part of the tutorial: How to Use Data Transfer (which covers drag and drop and cut/copy/paste) and How to Use the Focus Subsystem. Many thanks to Shannon Hickey and Scott Violet for their reviews of these rather long and technically complex sections. Drastically changed the text and examples for How to Use SpringLayout. It's still unfinished, but should now be more useful. Many of the examples use a SpringUtilities class that makes it easy to build grids of cells, including columns of label-text field pairs. Updated the following Swing component reference pages to 1.4: lists, panels, progress bars, menus, scroll panes, and sliders. Added a list of examples to the formatted text field section. Updated a couple of other Swing reference pages to 1.4: borders, icons. Updated applet tags throughout the tutorial to use APPLET instead of OBJECT/EMBED. This should make them execute successfully in recent versions of Java Plug-in. Changed a couple of applets to use getResourceAsStream instead of getResource to load their images; this is more efficient for applets using Java Plug-in. Throughout the Swing examples, invoked setOpaque(true) on JPanels used as content panes, to account for the fact that panels are no longer opaque by default in every look and feel we distribute. (GTK+, added in 1.4.2, has transparent panels.) Where possible, changed examples that use p = new JPanel(); p.setLayout(l) to use p = new JPanel(l), to avoid the unnecessary creation of FlowLayout objects. Rewrote and reorganized much of the early part of the Swing components lesson. This included adding two new pages, with some new material and some extracted from other pages: Using HTML in Swing Components and Using Models. Miscellaneous fixes to broken links, typos, and the like. Year of the Black Sheep (China), 3 February 03 - Reorganized and updated Setting the Look and Feel. It even has information on the GTK and Windows XP look and feels, which will be introduced in 1.4.2. Added source code for the 1.4 events demos. We had released the demos in runnable form soon after our last update, but without the source code. Updated the following pages in the components lesson to reflect 1.4 (and make any other improvements we could): JComponent, button, combo box, color chooser, and frame. Updated/added examples in the components lesson. New demo: FrameDemo2. Added PNG support to FileChooserDemo2. Changed ListDemo to not add a person if they already exist. Added a text input dialog to DialogDemo. Fixed the Creating Classes answer page to actually contain answers. Updated our standard headers and footers to be more usable by people with disabilities. These changes should be invisible to our other readers. Miscellaneous fixes to broken links, typos, and the like. Onion Market Day (Switzerland), 25 November 02 - We changed our external links to bring up new, blank windows instead of named windows. Although this might result in an excess of windows, it should solve the problem of people losing the named windows. We added many 1.4 examples to two of the Swing trail's lessons: Using Swing Components and Using Other Swing Features. These examples can be launched using JavaTM Web Start, and the source files now list what other files they need. The overall Swing example index now points to all versions of the examples for each lesson. We added a page on key bindings to the Using Other Swing Features lesson. We also updated the action and accessibility pages. In the Swing components lesson, we changed the order of the pages and updated all the pages up through and including buttons. We're still in the process of updating the Creating a GUI with JFC/Swing trail to 1.4. You might notice some changes or notes about changes we plan to make. We added a Java Web Start page to help people install and use that software. Miscellaneous fixes to broken links and typos. Robinson Crusoe's Birthday, 30 September 02 - We added a new lesson! Regular Expressions covers the java.util.regex API introduced in the 1.4 release of the Java™ 2 Platform Standard Edition. Regular expressions can be used as a tool to search, edit, or manipulate text or data. This package uses Perl-like syntax, but our lesson doesn't assume that you've had previous experience with regular expressions. The Tutorial front page has completely changed, and the java.sun.com one now looks different from the downloaded one. The content of the two pages remains nearly identical. We added a search box to the Tutorial front page. We retired the Servlets trail, since it's out of date and other tutorials have updated servlet coverage. For links to the newer coverage and to a downloadable form of the old trail, see the old trailhead. We added a page of printing tips: Improving Printing Performance. It includes strategies that you can use starting in both 1.3 and 1.4.1. We added a file describing the license for our code examples. Unless otherwise licensed, all our code is available under this license. Notice is hereby given: We plan to retire the Trail Map. We're in the process of updating the Creating a GUI with JFC/Swing trail to 1.4. You might notice some changes or notes about changes we plan to make. Lots of miscellaneous fixes to broken links and typos. Magha Puja Day (Thailand), 4 March 02 - The 1.4 version of the Java 2 Platform Standard Edition was released recently. We're in the process of updating the Creating a GUI with JFC/Swing trail to 1.4. The Full-Screen Exclusive Mode API covers a brand new API in the 1.4 release; programmers who write games or other graphic-intensive applications should read this trail. Lots of miscellaneous fixes to broken links and typos. Underdog Day (World), 19 December 01 - Maintenance Release We removed our survey from the Web site. We want to thank everyone for their thoughtful responses. Your feedback will help us improve the Tutorial and plan for the future. Lots of miscellaneous fixes to broken links and typos, including updates in the Creating a GUI with JFC/Swing trail. Chulalongkorn Day (Thailand), 23 October 01 - New survey! Please spend a few minutes filling out our survey. Your feedback will help us improve the Tutorial and plan for the future. We've also included some localization questions to help us learn what languages you'd like us to provide translations in. Lots of miscellaneous fixes to broken links and typos. Golden Week (Japan), 3 May 01 - New lesson! User Interfaces that Swing: A Quick Start Guide. is a quick start guide to using Swing components to build user interfaces. It is built around several progressively complicated examples. (This lesson started life as a chapter in our latest book, The Java Tutorial, Third Edition.) Another new lesson! For programmers who write games or other graphic-intensive apps, check out the new Full-Screen Exclusive Mode API lesson. This API will be included in the 1.4 release of the Java 2 Standard Edition. Miscellaneous fixes to broken links and typos. Glarius Festival (Switzerland), 1 April 01 - Completely updated the I/O: Reading and Writing (but no 'rithmetic) lesson. Reorganized the order of lessons in the Essential trail. Miscellaneous fixes to broken links and typos. Minor Update, 28 Feb 01 - Miscellaneous fixes to broken links and typos. Rolling Blackouts Release, 3 Feb 01 - Added Questions and Exercises for all trails included in the new book, The Java Tutorial Third Edition. Added new book pages to support the new book, The Java Tutorial Third Edition. (The TOC includes a handy set of links to all the answers for the Questions & Exercises.) Updated the Getting Started trail. We updated the material for 1.3 and added Questions and Exercises. Updated the Interfaces and Packages lesson. We updated the material for 1.3 and added Questions and Exercises. Miscellaneous fixes to broken links and typos. Edvard Munch's Birthday, 12 Dec 00 - Updated the Learning the Java Language trail. We updated the material for 1.3 and added Questions and Exercises to the Language Basics section. Updated the servlets trail to refer to the Tomcat 3.x and 4.0 implementations. These releases support the 2.2 and 2.3 versions of Java Servlet technology. The Tomcat version of the Servlets Bookstore Example can now be downloaded as a zip file. Miscellaneous fixes to broken links and typos. Friday the 13th, 13 Oct 00 - Added information to the IDL trail about the idlj compiler, which is part of the 1.3 release. Updated links to the idlj compiler, its documentation, and the OMG site. Updated the servlets trail to refer to Java Servlet 2.2 API Docs. Updated the Bingo example to fix some thread safety issues. Updated the API links in most of the basic trails to point to the 1.3 versions (instead of 1.2). Miscellaneous fixes to broken links and typos. Tutorial Fifth Anniversary, 31 May 00 - Added Werner van Mook's Mac adaptation of the instructions for writing and compiling your first programs: First Cup of Java (Mac OS). Added questions and exercises to the end of the Getting Started trail and to the first three lessons in the Learning the Java Language trail. Rewrote portions of the first lessons in the Learning the Java Language trail. Miscellaneous fixes to broken links and typos. Zeppo Marx's Birthday (1901), 25 February 00 - Did reconstructive work on the Learning the Java Language trail. Lots of new examples added. Cleaned up. Fixed a subtle bug in SwingWorker source code. See How to Use Threads in the Swing trail. Adjusted JTable page, examples to reflect 1.3. See How to Use Tables in the Swing trail. Miscellaneous fixes to broken links and typos. Thanksgiving (USA), 24 November 99 - Added a new lesson to the JavaBeans(tm) trail, Using the BeanContext API, that covers The Extensible Runtime Containment and Services Protocol. Added some information about JTable in 1.3 in the Swing trail. Also, added a new 1.3 JTable example. Began updating and rewriting the Learning the Java Language trail. This work includes adding exercises and questions to each section. Added the glossary from the java.sun.com website and began linking terms to it. Did a partial conversion to our new icon scheme for identifying the target of our links. looks up a glossary term links to a .java file link to a page within the javadocs hosted at java.sun.com links to a page outside of the tutorial links to a page in a different lesson within the tutorial Intra-tutorial links (black) update the page in the current browser window, while extra-tutorial links (colored links) bring up a new browser window. Vegetarian Day (World), 1 October 99 - Removed the survey. Thank you for your responses. Added a really big index that lists every content page in the tutorial in order. Added a resources page that lists Java programming resources outside of the tutorial. Added Your First Cup of Java (for UNIX). Added feedback form. Please use this form to contact us instead of sending mail directly. It will help direct your mail to the right person. Modified our tools to provide automatic next and previous links, automatic page titles, and automatic page headers and footers. This change should be largely unnoticeable to readers except that these page elements should contain fewer errors and inconsistencies. Created a tool that automatically generated trail-level TOC pages. This change should be largely unnoticeable to readers except that these pages should contain fewer errors and inconsistencies. Fixed various broken links, typographical, and other errors. Put all of the images on the Swing Components Visual Index. Updated API links to point to Java 2 SDK docs. Thanks to our two delightful summer interns, Ray and Indra, we were able to do a lot of clean up including fixing omissions, making clarifications, adding examples, and so on. We did a pass and cleaned up most of the pending issues. The only remaining pendings are in the BINGO lesson, which has not been completed, and in one of the book pages for the Second Edition. We hope, but do not promise, to clean up the remaining ones for the next tutorial update. National Smile Week :), 3 August 99 - Added the 2D applets to the list of applets page, for a total of 77 applets in the Tutorial. Also, provided Java Plug-in tags for running the 2D applets. Added detailed instructions for compiling and running a Java program in Windows. Posted a survey. Created a tutorial announcements mailing list to which tutorial readers can subscribe. Added common problems pages to some trails that didn't have them. Clarified and fixed various errors reported by readers. Fiesta de San Fermin (Spain), 7 July 99 - Fixed most of the pending issues in the Swing trail. Fixed a few pending issues in other trails. Fixed some problems with one example in the security trail. Made some minor modifications to the page format and did some clean up on our tools. This has minor repercussions for API links. Cleaned up the image directories and removed unused images. This reduced the size of the tutorial by about 1.5 Meg. Added coverage of JSDK 2.1 in the servlets trail. Modified our coverage of finalization in the Java language trail and in effected examples. Fixed typos, broken links, a couple of broken applets, and other reader reported problems. Updated the instructions for running the BINGO program. Became a mirror for WinHelp version of tutorial. Memorial Day (USA), 28 May 99 - Announced the Swing book. Due to overwhelming reader feedback, we changed our format again. We removed the left-hand border and modified the headers and footers to include a link to the search page. Fixed typos and other errors in the Learning Java, Essential Classes, and Custom Networking trails in response to reader e-mail. Lei Day (Hawaii) update, 5 May 99 - We made some changes to our new page format in resonse to reader feedback. Because of reader feedback, we added a navigation area to the bottom of each page. Implemented a max width of 460 for images to prevent large images from creating a page that is too wide. Lei Day (Hawaii), 1 May 99 - Modified our page format. It now includes search on every content page. Created examples indexes for all examples in the Swing trail. If readers like it, we plan to do this for all trails. Reviewed the code for all example programs in the Swing trail. Did a final pass in preparation for converting from HTML to book format. This included everything from fixing typos to tweaking comments in source files to adding a few paragraphs of new information. Added a second custom layout manager example: GraphPaperLayout. Added new examples and content to the 2d trail. World Culture Day, 12 March 99 - We marched through the Swing trail preparing for copyedit. Here's what we did: Internally reviewed and edited all .html pages in the Swing trail in the first 7 lessons. In some cases, this amounted to a major rewrite. Added *a lot* of material to the component how-to pages that covers aspects of the components that had previously been omitted. Typically, the additional material covers more advanced component features. Reviewed example code, ran all examples, and modified as appropriate. Researched and resolved many pending issues. (Some still remain.) Performed "example audits" and updated the tables of examples. Reviewed and updated API tables everywhere. Fixed various bugs and clarity issues reported by readers. Filled in "glue" pages. Added information about common problems in many places. Tied sections together better by adding links. Made the layout and events sections similar to how-to pages by adding API and examples tables. Joe's 40th Birthday, 21 Jan 99 - Updated the drawing lesson to Swing. Made various improvements to the Swing trail. Some front page cleanup. Winter Solstice, 21 Dec 98 Added Search Capability! Added preliminary draft of Converting to Swing lesson. Added links to resources and examples for Drag 'n Drop. Some image clean up, which shrunk the tutorial by about .75 Megs. Made various improvements to the Swing trail, Fixed various broken link and typos. Enlightenment of the Buddha (Japan), 8 Dec 98 Minor typo and broken link fixes. Getting first two lessons in Swing trail ready for copyedit. Removed all .class files from tutorial except those necessary for running applets. This shrank the tutorial by 1.5 Megs. Day of the Artisans (Mexico), 4 Dec 98 Note: CD-ROM build. This is the version of the tutorial that appears on the CD-ROM for The Java Tutorial Continued. Integrated all copyedits and other changes from the continued book into 5 trails: overview, internationalization, sound, 2D, and RMI. Made lots of little improvements to the Swing trail, especially in swingOverview and swingStart. Reorganized material about text. Updated programs to use Swing 1.1 (from Swing 1.0.3 and Swing 1.1 Beta 3) and JDK 1.2. Aron's Birthday, 6 Nov 98 - Substantially reorganized the Creating a GUI with JFC/Swing trail. The Swing-based User Interface trail replaces the old AWT-based User Interface trail, which is available only by download. We still have some work to do to complete the transition. Please bear with us during construction! Miscellaneous fixes to typos, broken links, and program bugs. Universal Children's Day, 5 Oct 98 - Converted the examples and text in Laying Out Components within a Container to use Swing. Several updates to the Using Swing Components lesson. Converted many applets to use Java Plug-in. Updated to JDK 1.1.7 and Swing 1.1 Beta 3. Converted old UI trail to a downloadable archive. Removed reference objects trail. Miscellaneous fixes to typos, broken links, and program bugs. Labor Day Release, 7 Sept 98 - Added Overview of the JDK. Added Java Sound trail. Added Working with Java 2D Graphics trail. Added JDBC Database Access trail. Added Using Java RMI trail. Reviewed and edited Programming with Java IDL trail. Added new material and examples to the Using Swing Components lesson. Laine's Birthday Release, An Update, 14 Aug 98 - Added Programming with Java IDL trail. Added Security in JDK 1.2 trail. Reviewed and edited various trails and lesson. Added new material and examples to the Using Swing Components lesson. Fixed miscellaneous typos and broken links. Made minor improvements to text and examples all over the place. Laine's Birthday Release, 3 Aug 98 - Added Collections trail. Added Servlets trail. Added The Java Extensions Mechanism trail. Added Reference Objects trail. Added new material and examples to the Using Swing Components lesson. Completed technical reviews for many pages and integrated engineering feedback. Reviewed and edited javabeans and jar trails. Fixed miscellaneous typos and broken links. Made minor improvements to text and examples all over the place. The Summer Solstice Release, 26 June 98 - Added a lot of new material and examples to the Using Swing Components lesson. Updated information about hashCode and equals. Added a bios page that contains information about our contributing authors. Reviewed and edited internationalization, reflection, and native trails. Fixed miscellaneous typos and broken links. Improved some text and some examples. Nettle Day (UK), 29 May 98 - Added JAR trail. Added 4 new topics to the internationalization trail: comparing strings, text boundaries, conversions, and a checklist for internationalizing existing programs. Added demo programs to the date and number formatting lessons. Reorganized JavaBeans trail. Added a lot of new material and examples to the Using Swing Components lesson. Reviewed native methods trail and made associated changes and fixes. Fixed miscellaneous typos and broken links. Improved some text and some examples. Arbor Day, 24 April 98 WooHoo! New front page! New Trail map! New look for trail-level TOC.html files. Also, removed lesson-level TOC.html files. Instead we now provide a link to the appropriate place within the trail-level TOC.html files. Continued to add new pages to the Using Swing Components lesson. Added a new lesson to the internationalizaton trail covering formatting. Added trail on reflection. Added some information to the native methods trail for Mac programmers. Fixed typos, broken links, and various other minor problems with content Removed the old internationalization trail. Removed old native methods trail...provide a downloadable archive instead. Updated errata page for second edition of the book. The Vernal Equinox, 20 March 98 Changed the background color to white. Finished integrating figures from the new, second, edition of the book. Figures and images are now kept together at the top-level instead of sprinkled throughout the lesson directories. Added book.html and related pages for the second editon of the book. Changed the page design of the book.html and related pages for the first edition to match the second edition. Did a bunch of work behind the scenes on our tools and processes. This is the first update of the tutorial from our new workspace with our new makefiles and build process. Because of our lovely new tools, we can now easily provide a downloadable archive of all of the examples in the book. See Download the Tutorial for the ftp links. Fixed various typos and other minor problems with content. Updated the Swing material relating to the JDK 1.2. Saturnalia, 22 December 97 - The long awaited update! This is a major update of the tutorial. Almost every file has been touched in some way. This release of the online tutorial corresponds with the release of the 2nd edition of The Java Tutorial book and is the version of the online tutorial that appears on the CD-ROM that accompanies that book. The changes are in progress, but to a large extent we have integrated 1.1 information into the existing trails, lessons, and examples. This is in sharp contrast to the 1.1 notes that were littered throughout the previous version of the tutorial and were, admittedly, somewhat confusing. Also, we are in the process of integrating copyedit and other changes made to the book version, into the online version. This has been completed thoroughly in some areas of the online tutorial, and spottily in other areas. We will continue with this process throughout the coming months. New lessons in this tutorial that first appeared in print in the 2nd edition of The Java Tutorial book: The Java Phenomenon Migrating to 1.1 A Preview of Things to Come New trails for this version of the tutorial that haven't yet made it to print: Added a Putting It All Together trail that provides a large, real-world, client/server example and analyzes it. Got a totally new JavaBeans Tutorial by Andy Quinn! 8 July 97 - One of the goals of the tutorial is to document the latest and greatest from JavaSoft as it is released. To this end, we've added a lesson about Using Swing Components. The Swing release is an early release of part of the JFC. This information is only available from the Java Tutorial. Added a trail, Java Security 1.1, covering the new 1.1 security APIs. Updated the The JavaBeans(tm) Tutorial by Greg Voss. Promoted Writing Global Programs to a trail. This trail is still in progress, but it contains new material including several excellent demos from Taligent. Added information about the 1.1 release in our To 1.1 - And Beyond! trail. Made the usual fixes to broken links, typos, and other errata. 14 May 97 - We improved and added more 1.1 information in existing sections. We added more examples of and information about the various types of event listeners to Handling Events. We also fixed the AroundTheWorld applet used in Writing Global Programs. 28 April 97 - We added a new trail, To 1.1 - And Beyond!, which is the headquarters for features added to the JDK after 1.0. Also, the Learning the Java Language and Essential Java Classes trails now have notes that point out material that is affected by 1.1. And finally, we reorganized our top-level files to make them more accessible. 3 March 97 - Added a brand new trail introducing JavaBeans! This trail, JavaBeans Tutorial, written by Greg Voss, shows you the ins and outs of developing programs using the JavaBeans technology. 19 February 97 - Our new "guest author" program debuts in this release of the tutorial with a completely new trail about writing native methods by Beth Stearns. Check it out: Using the Java Native Interface (JNI). Merged copyediting changes from the book into the on-line version in these two trails: Getting Started and Writing Applets. Updated Writing Global Programs to work with the FCS JDK 1.1 release. The usual miscellaneous fixes. 24 December 96 - Miscellaneous fixes. Also, added a new lesson describing new features of the JDK for Writing Global Programs. 6 June 96 - Released the Sixth DRAFT. This draft is the version on which the book version is based. The book and online versions aren't exactly the same - for example, none of the copyeditor's changes have made it into the online tutorial yet. Also, the online tutorial's figures haven't been updated to be the same as those in the book. Notable content changes since the fifth draft include: Finished the Common Problems pages. Added information on the Macintosh JDK. Added an applet anatomy section to Getting Started. Improved the talk server example in the applet communication lesson. 28 Mar 96 - Released the Fifth DRAFT. Many pages in this draft have been rewritten or expanded upon. (If you've sent us comments and don't see them reflected in this draft, please don't be insulted - we haven't finished incorporating reviewer comments.) Some of the notable changes include: Revised Application Anatomy lesson and moved it to the Getting Started trail: The Anatomy of a Java Application. We plan to write an equivalent section for applets. Did major rewrites of the following lessons in the Java trail: The Nuts and Bolts of the Java Language and Objects and Classes in Java. Added new pages to the applet overview: Adding an Applet to an HTML Page and Summary. Beefed up the applet threads pages: Threads in Applets. Added a discussion of peers to the UI trail: Details of the Component Architecture. Added material to the native methods trail, Integrating Native Methods into Java Programs, including passing data into and out of native methods and accessing Java objects. Removed some trails: comparison to C/C++, troubleshooting, and tools. This information has been (or will be) incorporated into other trails/lessons. 4 Mar 96 - Released the Fourth DRAFT Among the normal bug, typo and broken link fixes, this draft includes revisions to many of our old trails and lessons, plus this new material: Added a new lesson to Integrating Native Methods into Java Programs trail. Added new material to and/or wrote from scratch 4 lessons in the Writing Applets trail. Including: Creating an Applet User Interface, Communicating with Other Programs, Understanding Applet Capabilities and Restrictions, and Finishing an Applet. (The first three have since been reorganized into two trails: Taking Advantage of the Applet API and Practical Considerations when Writing Applets. 24 Feb 96 - Released the Third DRAFT Among the normal bug, typo and broken link fixes, this draft includes revisions to many of our old trails and lessons, plus this new material: Added a lot of new material to Creating an Applet User Interface. Added new lessons to the Creating a User Interface trail. Including: Laying Out Components within a Container Please note that 3 pages are still under construction. Using Components, the GUI Building Blocks Each component now has a page describing how to use it. Working with Graphics There's now information on how to draw primitive graphics (including text) and images, plus information on performing animation. The animation pages include information on how to eliminate flashing, using update() and double buffering. They also have information on using MediaTracker. Added a new trail: Custom Networking Added a new lesson, Input and Output Streams to the Essential Java Classes trail. 23 Jan 96 - Updated the Second DRAFT Updated links to point to new FCS1.0 JDK release. Fixed bugs where some applets and sources files were missing. Miscellaneous fixes of typos, bugs, and broken links. 18 Jan 96 - Updated the Second DRAFT Changed the Creating a User Interface trail to reflect the event changes introduced in Beta2. Specifically, keyboard event handlers now have to return false, unless they want the event to be dropped. The Conversion example program and the overview were affected. Revised the structure of the tutorial to reflect what we're going to be able to finish by the time the book version is due to the printer. Added a very preliminary lesson on Java's object features - Java Objects. Fixed various typos, bugs and broken links. 12 Dec 95 - Updated the Second DRAFT Made the few changes necessary to reflect Beta2 instead of Beta. Fixed various typos, bugs and broken links. Added a new lesson, Handling Errors using Exceptions, in the Essential Java Classes trail. 13 Nov 95 - Updated the Second DRAFT Made the few changes necessary to reflect Beta instead of Pre-Beta. Changed the name of this document from "The Java Programmer's Guide" to "The Java Language Tutorial: Object-Oriented Programming for the Internet." Why the long name? This document is going to be published as a book, and we wanted to make sure the title was as descriptive as possible, without requiring much prior knowledge of the potential buyer. Added ALT text to our link graphics, so that people using non-graphical browsers can understand the information the graphic was conveying. Added a new lesson, Laying Out Components Within a Container, in the Creating a User Interface trail. 2 Oct 95 - Released the Second DRAFT Everything was updated to reflect the new APIs (except for The "run:" Protocol Handler and The "text/plain" Content Handler in the Getting Started trail). We fixed many typos, clarified many obfuscations, fixed broken links and miscommunications. We got a face-lift with new icons and a new page design. And, we added these trails and lessons: The Writing Applets trail has a new lesson: Overview of Applets which describes how applets work and how you use the Applet class to create an applet. The new Creating a User Interface trail has two new lessons: Overview of UI Elements which introduces you to the objects that the Java development environment provides for building UIs, and Laying Out Components within a Container which tells you how to use each of the Components provided in the AWT. We've also added the Integrating Native Methods into Java Programs trail that shows you how to integrate native methods into your Java programs. And finally, we've added two new lessons: Threads of Control and Object-Oriented Programming Concepts. 18 May 95 - Released the First DRAFT
