http://www.oracle.com/corporate/index.html
About Oracle | Company Information | Oracle Home Menu Oracle Back Search Search by voice View AccountsSign In Back ORACLE ACCOUNT Sign-In Create an Account Help Sign Out CLOUD ACCOUNT Sign in to Cloud Try Oracle Cloud Free Tier No results found Your search did not match any results. We suggest you try the following to help find what you're looking for: Check the spelling of your keyword search. Use synonyms for the keyword you typed, for example, try “application” instead of “software.” Try one of the popular searches shown below. Start a new search.   Trending Questions Back Our mission is to help people see data in new ways, discover insights, unlock endless possibilities. Oracle Our Press, Analyst, and Investor Updates HR Initiative Oracle, partners team up to create trusted career records, powered by blockchain Get the details HCM Cloud Oracle offers free HR tool to help customers keep employees safe Read the news Patient Data Oracle Therapeutic Learning System records effectiveness of COVID-19 drugs More information Chatbots How digital assistants bridge the gap for remote workers Read the blog Data Integration How to quickly and easily connect Oracle Eloqua with Zoom conferences Review use cases Oracle University Free online learning offered for Oracle Cloud Infrastructure, Autonomous Database Get full details Business Continuity Oracle’s commitment to our customers during the COVID-19 crisis Learn more Emerging Tech Leading analysts cite strength of Oracle Blockchain technology, strategy Get more information Dual Region Strategy Oracle’s new Montreal Cloud region helps with disaster recovery, compliance needs Read the news Mobile POS Oracle adds clarity, color to De Beers Jewellers’ in-store experience Read the news Earnings Oracle’s Q3 FY20 GAAP EPS Rises 4%; Non-GAAP EPS Up 11% Review the results Women’s Careers Oracle engineer discusses Women’s History Month, tech professions Read the interview Learn about our leadership team and Board of Directors. Read their biographies A history of possibilities Birth of a Silicon Valley startup Engineers Larry Ellison, Bob Miner, and Ed Oates found Software Development Laboratories. Their first office is 900-square-feet in Santa Clara, California. 1977 Oracle sees the future The company changes its name to Oracle Corporation from Relational Software Inc. (formerly SDL). 1982 Oracle goes public Oracle becomes a publicly traded company on the NASDAQ exchange. Quotation symbol is ORCL. 1986 World’s largest database management company Oracle ranked as the world’s largest database management company with US$100M in sales and 4,500 end users in 55 countries. 1987 Moving on up Oracle debuts on the S&P 500; outgrows old headquarters and moves to its current location in Redwood Shores, California. 1989 Oracle celebrates 15 years and Oracle7 release There’s lots to celebrate with the release of game-changer Oracle7 database and the company’s 15th anniversary. 1992 Harnessing the power of the internet CEO Larry Ellison introduces a product strategy for delivering Oracle software via the internet. 1995 Oracle Database sets the standard InformationWeek names Oracle Database one of the most influential products of the 1990s. 1999 Oracle saves a billion—using Oracle Oracle saves US$1B dollars consolidating its own systems using Oracle E-Business Suite 11i, the first fully integrated enterprise apps suite. 2000 Oracle acquires PeopleSoft Oracle kicks off a Silicon Valley high-tech acquisition trend by buying a leader in HR and ERP apps. 2005 Oracle at 30 continues to grow and innovate Oracle turns 30 with revenues of US$18B, 65,000 employees, and 275,000 customers in more than 145 countries. 2007 Simply Marvel-ous Marvel Entertainment smashes silos and mines data using Oracle applications. 2008 Hardware and software, engineered to work together Oracle acquires Sun Microsystems, cementing its strategy to engineer hardware and software together. Becomes the steward of Java. 2010 Oracle Database plugs into the cloud Revolutionary multitenant architecture helps deliver a secure and consolidated database cloud. 2013 ORACLE TEAM USA sails to second America’s Cup win ORACLE TEAM USA beats challenger Team New Zealand to win the 2013 America’s Cup yacht race, its second consecutive victory. 2013 Leadership to the power of three Safra Catz and Mark Hurd named Oracle CEOs. Founder Larry Ellison becomes chairman of the board and chief technology officer. 2014 Support for startups Oracle’s startup program promoting tech entrepreneurship launches, grows to nine centers before becoming a global digital program. 2016 Oracle launches the first autonomous database The company launches Oracle Autonomous Database, the industry’s first self-patching, self-tuning, self-managing database. 2018 CERN explores inner workings of the universe Scientific research center is using 10,000 Oracle Cloud cores to perform physics analysis. 2018 Barcelona biotech fights heart disease ELEM computes full-heart models of diseased hearts using Oracle's high performance cloud. 2019 Endless possibilities Our Culture Work Here Want to make a difference? You’ve come to the right place. Find opportunities Socially Responsible At Oracle, we know that sustainability is good business. Learn how Diverse and Inclusive We don’t just value differences—we celebrate them. Find out more “Oracle thrives because of the exceptional talent we have attracted.” Larry Ellison Chairman of the Board and CTO Resources for Developers Startups Students and Educators Partners Oracle PartnerNetwork Find a Partner Log in to OPN Emerging Technologies Artificial Intelligence Blockchain More Solutions How We Operate Corporate Security Practices Doing Business with Oracle Oracle@Oracle Contact Us US Sales: +1.800.633.0738 Global Contacts Subscribe to emails Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Oracle Integrated Cloud Applications & Platform Services © 2020 Oracle Site Map Privacy/Do Not Sell My Info Country/Region Ad Choices Careers
